www.data-compression.info the data compression resource on the internet the data compression site on the internet www.data-compression.info is intended as a central resource for information of the data compression field. it is devided in several parts : the algorithm part , the corpora part , the comparison part , the abc part , the books part , the conferences part , the site-history part and the part to links of friends. the algorithms part consists of links to algorithm resources on the internet , like papers , peoples and source codes. the corpora part lists several sets of files , which are used for evaluating compression performance. you may want to take a look at the protein corpus , a new corpus inside the data compression world. the comparisons part contains file based results for data compression programs , which include the average compressions rate , the total compression rate and the speed for compression and decompression. the next part is the home of abc - the advanced blocksorting compressor. abc is a free data compression program based on the burrows-wheeler transformation. the source code is written in object pascal ( delphi ) and free for academic , research and educational use. a brief list of data compression books is the subject of the books part . the conferences part keeps a list of current conferences around the world , which are related to the data compression field. the site-history part contains the last changes made on this site. the last part is a collection of links to friends of this site . please take a look at this page too and visit the corresponding sites. besides data compression , i am concerned with another research topic : medical image processing. if you like , you might want to take a peek at my other internet site www.medical-image-processing.info , where i collect lots of information and links about this topic. the date format used on these pages is : dd.mm.yyyy. this site is subject to continuing progress. my name is j ü rgen abel and i am the author of this site. if you have any comments , suggestions or find a broken link at this site please let me know and send your e-mail to juergen.abel " a t " data-compression.info ( replace " at/ @ " ) . your feedback is appreciated ! if you like , you can take a peek at my homepage www.juergen-abel.info too. thank you very much for visiting my page . last 4 updates of this site date description 25.11.2012 added a link to the bulgarian translation of " algorithms/ec " from dimitar teykiyski at the " algorithms/ec " page. 17.10.2010 added links to the site and a paper of ana balevic , who is focused on novel approaches for design and implementation of parallel algorithms for data compression , at the " algorithms/ac " and " links " page. 09.08.2010 added link to the recent paper post bwt stages of the burrows-wheeler compression algorithm from j ü rgen abel at " algorithms/bwt " page. the paper gives an introduction into the bwca field and proposes several improvements for post bwt stages including a new context based approach. 17.01.2010 updated link to the revisiting dictionary-based compression at the " algorithms/preprocessing " page and several links to papers of my moved homepage , thanks to remarks of glenn davis copyright © 2002-2014 dr. j ü rgen abel , lechstra ß e 1 , 41469 neu ß , germany. all rights reserved . since 18.11.2002 : gostats simple html based code end gostats simple html based code statistics :
