ad : freewheel subscribe adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech video shows quizzes computer electronics google_ad_section_start ( name = content ) home / tech / computer / computer software / file sharing more stuff like this 10 reasons why you should care about net neutrality 10 diy projects for tech nerds electronics puzzles : laptop how file compression works by tom harris ad : freewheel place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render page 1 introduction to how file compression works 2 redundancy and algorithms 3 searching for patterns 4 lossy and lossless compression dtl_id = // most types of computer files are fairly redundant -- they have the same information listed over and over again . howstuffworks.com related links how mp3 files work how are movies stored on dvd discs ? how to defrag your hard drive if you download many programs and files off the internet , you 've probably encountered zip files before. this compression system is a very handy invention , especially for web users , because it lets you reduce the overall number of bits and bytes in a file so it can be transmitted faster over slower internet connections , or take up less space on a disk. once you download the file , your computer uses a program such as winzip or stuffit to expand the file back to its original size. if everything works correctly , the expanded file is identical to the original file before it was compressed. at first glance , this seems very mysterious. how can you reduce the number of bits and bytes and then add those exact bits and bytes back later ? as it turns out , the basic idea behind the process is fairly straightforward. in this article , we 'll examine this simple method as we take a very small file through the basic process of compression. most types of computer files are fairly redundant -- they have the same information listed over and over again. file-compression programs simply get rid of the redundancy. instead of listing a piece of information over and over again , a file-compression program lists that information once and then refers back to it whenever it appears in the original program. as an example , let 's look at a type of information we 're all familiar with : words. in john f. kennedy 's 1961 inaugural address , he delivered this famous line : " ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country. " the quote has 17 words , made up of 61 letters , 16 spaces , one dash and one period. if each letter , space or punctuation mark takes up one unit of memory , we get a total file size of 79 units. to get the file size down , we need to look for redundancies. immediately , we notice that : " ask " appears two times " what " appears two times " your " appears two times " country " appears two times " can " appears two times " do " appears two times " for " appears two times " you " appears two times ignoring the difference between capital and lower-case letters , roughly half of the phrase is redundant. nine words -- ask , not , what , your , country , can , do , for , you -- give us almost everything we need for the entire quote. to construct the second half of the phrase , we just point to the words in the first half and fill in the spaces and punctuation. we 'll look at how file-compression systems deal with redundancy in more detail in the next section . print cite this ! close please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this howstuffworks article : harris , tom. " how file compression works " 18 january 2001. howstuffworks.com. < http : //www.howstuffworks.com/file-compression.htm > 14 august 2014 . citation & date feedback page 1 introduction to how file compression works 2 redundancy and algorithms 3 searching for patterns 4 lossy and lossless compression 5 lots more information place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render more to explore popular tech topics mac , eniac or univac : the computer history quiz top 5 myths about the internet how to connect your computer to your tv how capacitors work how cloud computing works take a look at computer videos you might also like what is aimster ? as a file-sharing program , aimster is generally more secure because users have complete control over their files. this aol program can also hook up with your im friends . how the google chrome os works google 's new operating system is designed to be faster and to require less maintenance than existing oses. what will you give up in return ? will you be running it on your everyday machine ? popular articles how content-recognition software works how to make a brochure in microsoft word 2007 can your computer run without an operating system ? google_ad_section_end ( name = content ) ad : freewheel ad : freewheel most popular most watched most popular 10 sci-fi gadgets we wish actually existed how to connect your computer to your tv 10 futurist predictions in technology clicking and picking : the 'minecraft ' quiz 10 weird patents that google owns most watched computer virus videos home network videos ultimate computer hardware videos digital cameras it 's all geek to me do n't miss stuff you should know : demystifying your world stuff mom never told you : all things women and gender stuff you missed in history class : fact or fiction ? ad : freewheel check out our podcasts ad : freewheel howstuffworks newsletter the latest and greatest subscribe howstuffworks adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech more stuff blogs hsw tools rss maps podcasts quizzes newsletters video hsw brazil hsw china stuff websites brainstuff carstuff fw : thinking stuff mom never told you stuff of genius stuff they do n't want you to know stuff to blow your mind stuff you missed in history class stuff you should know customer service advertising contact us help corporate about us careers @ hsw privacy policy visitor agreement take us with you follow us copyright © 1998-2014 howstuffworks , a division of infospace llc google tag manager end google tag manager
