uuu professor emeritus electrical and computer engineering san diego state university , san diego , ca 92182 . adjunct professor electrical and electronics enginering bo ğ azi ç i university , 34342 bebek , istanbul , turkey h ü seyin abut . bogazici university : in the pursuit of excellence since 1863 please visit 150 year anniversary website for most recent information : http : //150.boun.edu.tr 150 year celebrations in the us ! monday , april 21 , 2014 : president gulay barbarosoglu , select bu faculty , and a number of alumni in the us closed the session of nasdaq. protos from the event can be seen at the 150 year anniversary website ( above ) . saturday , april 26 , 2014 : 150 year gala dinner athe new york century club was a great success with participation more than 400 guests including the bu president , several faculty , alumni and distinguished guesses from all over the united states. photos from this memorable event can be found at the 150 year anniversary website . tuesday , march 4 , 2014 : the ambassador hon. ahmet namik tanhas hosted a reception at the residence in washington dc to celebrate our 150th year anniversary. prof. gulay barbarosoglu ( rector ) together with past administrators , a number of faculty and alumni were at hand to embrace our alumni , families and friends of bu. photos from that evening can be seen at the gecmis etkinlikler section : http : //150.boun.edu.tr . new : smart mobile in_vehicle systems : next generation adavancements g. schmidt , h. abut , k. takeda & j. h.l. hansen , springer science + business media , new york , ny , 2014 online order information : http : //www.springeronline.com recent : dsp for in-vehicle systems and safety j. h.l.hansen , p. boyraz , k. takeda & h. abut , springer science + business media , new york , 2012 and chinese edition earlier three books from springer in-vehicle corpus and signal processing for driver behavior kazuya takeda , h. erdogan , john h.l.hansen , and h. abut springer science + business media , new york , 2008 advances for in-vehicle and mobile systems : challenges for international standards h. abut , j.h.l. hansen and k. takeda ( editors ) , springer , new york , ny , 2007 dsp for in-vehicle and mobile systems h. abut , j.h.l. hansen and k. takeda ( editors ) , springer , new york , ny , 2004 , ibsn : 0-387-22978 online order information : http : //www.springeronline.com drive-best dvd sample data sets on driver behaviour signals for in-vehicle technology this dvd contains real-world driving data samples from japan , us , turkey , and italy under a collaborative effort. on-line version are downloadable from this and three other mirror websites : 1 . dsp in cars at sdsu ( usa ) : drive-best 2. driving behavior signal processing at nagoya university ( japan ) : drive-best 3. center for robust speech systems at ut dallas ( usa ) : drive-best 4. sabanci university in istanbul ( turkey ) : drive-best academics teaching material on courses taught at at sdsu/su/ntu : research & projects : 1. international alliance for dsp in cars . 2. dsp in conformation radio therapy planning 3. dsp for drive-safe applications 4. in_vehicle corpus collection & driver behavior publications & presentations more information can be found on recent and pending material : 1. books and patents 2. chapters in book and journal articles 2. conference and workshop material 3. ieee distinguished lecturer & other presentations education , academic and professional services 1 . dsp conferences and workshops 2 . biometric id repository for ieee sp society 3. education and academic service san diego contact information : ece department , sdsu san diego , ca 92182-1309 ( + 1 ) ( 619 ) 594-3702 email : abut " at " anadolu.sdsu.edu replace " at " w @ url : http : //abut.sdsu.edu ece url : www.engineering.sdsu.edu/electrical bogazi ç i contact information : electrical and electronics enginering department bogazi ç i university , 34342 bebek , istanbul , turkey url : http : //abut.sdsu.edu ece url : http : //www.ee.boun.edu.tr/
