facebook sdk end facebook sdk skip to content skip to main navigation skip to 1st column skip to 2nd column begin : header begin : main navigation 1.800.219.7290 have a question ? contact us . solutions solutions home by capability mcafee ® e-business server replacement secure data exchange achieve fips 140-2 compliance reduce mainframe encryption costs virtualization cloud computing data center by industry banking & financial services healthcare government by business problem addressing the mcafee ® e-business server end-of-life challenge securely exchanging data with business partners meeting compliance & industry regulations avoiding liability risk due to data loss/theft protecting sensitive data reducing data center costs by compliance initiative fips 140-2 hipaa hitech act omb m-06-16 pci dss products/downloads support support home z/os linux on system z ibm i server desktop mobile vzip securezip ebusiness edition oem zip appnote resources resources home customer success stories financial services healthcare federal government state government retail manufacturing it services consulting services research and higher education documents product data sheets solution data sheets use cases whitepapers reports media videos on-demand webinars newsroom research 451 report partners partner login partner information technology partners partner home store blog company about pkware careers our customers management founder contact end : main navigation end : header begin : content z/os linux on system z ibm i server desktop mobile virtualization ebusiness edition oem zip appnote end : # exleft support .zip application note pkware ® introduced the zip format in 1989. this new format combined data compression , file management , and data encryption within a portable archive format. zip quickly became the accepted industry standard for cross-platform data exchange and efficient data storage. in order to ensure the continued interoperability of the .zip file format for all users , pkware publishes an application note on the .zip file format . the appnote provides developers a general description and technical details of the .zip specification. this specification is maintained and periodically updated by pkware with support from interested industry experts and other users of this format. these changes are intended to include new capabilities in anticipation of the emerging needs of the zip community , while ensuring on-going interoperability for zip files . the .zip format remains one of the most widely used file formats for cross-platform interoperability. leading industry standards including the ecma office open xml and the oasis open document format for office applications incorporate zip technology. other major industry standards incorporating zip include the java jar specification , sharable content object reference model ( adl-scorm ) and epub. these other industry standards are independently maintained by separate organizations that are not affiliated with pkware. please consult with the appropriate authoring group for additional information about their respective specifications . this appnote specification may be referenced in other specifications that may benefit from this technology providing the authors of those specifications work to ensure the on-going interoperability of this format. some zip technology is covered by patents or pending patents. if your application requires use of zip technology that is covered under a patent , pkware does provide reasonable and non discriminatory licensing. to submit requests for information or enhancements please email this email address is being protected from spambots. you need javascript enabled to view it. . if you would like to be updated on the developing .zip standard , please join the pkware appnote subscription service . for additional information on the appnote , see our publication policy . application note archives end : # exleft-mid quick links .zip application note application note archives pkware appnote subscription intellectual property publication policy submit a request end : # exright-box end : # exright end : # exmid end : # exparent end : # ja-mainbody end : content begin : footer press room pkzip and securezip deliver unprecedented performance improvements on z/os ® read more latest blog post entries surveying the data protection landscape at black hat 2014 author metadata blog post actions posted by matt little secure files you store and share in dropbox with viivo. free from pkware. get viivo support partners press legal site map copyright © 2014 pkware , inc. all rights reserved. end : footer google code for remarketing tag remarketing tags may not be associated with personally identifiable information or placed on pages related to sensitive categories. for instructions on adding this tag and more information on the above requirements , read the setup guide : google.com/ads/remarketingsetup
