international workshop on very low bitrate video coding vlbv98 theme : visual content analysis and coding october 8-9 , 1998 urbana , il , usa purpose of workshop the purpose of this workshop is to provide an international forum for the discussion of video representation and coding techniques being developed for mpeg-4 , mpeg-7 , and beyond. applications include videophone , teleconferencing and telecollaboration , video over atm , wireless , and the internet , interactive multimedia databases , remote sensing and surveillance , and communication aids for the hearing impaired. to focus discussions , we have selected as the main theme of this workshop : visual content analysis and coding. topics of special interest include - feature extraction - representation and coding - 3d modeling and virtual reality - coding of topological data ( meshes , boundaries , etc. ) - segmentation - face encoder - content classification and identification format of workshop to facilitate the exchange of ideas and to maximize discussion , the workshop will consist of a number of invited panels. contributed papers will be presented as posters . time and venue of workshop this two-day workshop is scheduled right after the ieee international conference on image processing , chicago ; and will be held at the beckman institute for advanced science and technology , university of illinois at urbana-champaign. the tentative schedule is available from here . international steering committee kiyo aizawa , univ. of tokyo , japan leonardo chiariglione , cselt , italy nariman farvardin , univ. of maryland , usa robert forchheimer , link รถ ping univ. , sweden barry haskell , at&t research labs , usa yoshimori hatori , kdd , japan thomas huang ( chair ) , univ. of illinois , usa nikil jayant , lucent tech. bell labs , usa murat kunt , epfl , switzerland michael lee , univ. of western australia , australia hans musmann , univ. of hannover , germany don pearson , univ. of essex , uk fernando pereira , inst. sup. tec. , portugal philippe salembier , univ. poli. cata. , spain ibrahim sezan , sharp labs , usa peter stucki , univ. of zurich , switzerland keynote speech " digital video : from vlbr to high definition - technologies , standards , and markets " dr. ya-qin zhang director , multimedia technology laboratory sarnoff corporation panel topics : panel 1 - image/video feature extraction and segmentation b. manjunath , uc santa barbara ( chair ) munchurl kim , electronics and telecommunication research institute murat kunt , epfl narendra ahuja , u. illinois at urbana-champaign atul puri , at&t labs - research panel 2 - video representation , coding , indexing wayne wolf , princeton u. ( chair ) s . panchanathan , arizona state u . fernando perira , tech. inst. , lisbon murat tekalp , u. rochester shih-fu chang , columbia u . panel 3 - 3d modeling ( inc. face ) and vr robert forchheimer , linkoping u. ( chair ) eric petajan , lucent technologies bell labs joern ostermann , at&t labs-research keith waters , compaq cambridge research lab panel 4 - applications hongjiang zhang , hp labs ( chair ) nevenka dimitrova , philips research behzad shahraray , at&t labs-research ibrahim sezan , sharp labs of america ya-qin zhang , sarnoff corp . panel 5 - mpeg-7 issues ibrahim sezan , sharp labs of america ( chair ) v. v. vinod , krdl adam lindsay , riverland research philippe salembier , upc h. j. zhang , hp labs submission procedure prospective contributors are invited to submit for consideration 4 copies of a summary of at least 2 pages and no more than 4 pages to : mohammad gharavi-alkhansari beckman institute univ. of illinois 405 n. mathews ave . urbana , il 61801 u.s.a . email : mohammad @ ifp.uiuc.edu deadlines : paper submission may 1 , 1998 notification of acceptance june 15 , 1998 camera-ready paper , 4 pages september 1 , 1998 registration and registration fee all participants must register for the workshop. registration is limited to 100. the registration of participants who are neither panelists nor poster presenters will be accepted on a first-come , first-served basis . the deadline is june 22 , 1998 . the registration fee is $ 250 ( $ 150 for students ) . checks must be made out to the university of illinois . ( we can not accept credit cards. ) please print out the registration form , fill it out , and mail it with your check to : julie weaver beckman institute univ. of illinois 405 n. mathews ave . urbana , il 61801 u.s.a . email : jweaver @ uiuc.edu hotel information october 9-10 is a big 10 football weekend. all hotels will be filled . hotel reservation of vlbv attendees must be made by july 15 , 1998. for hotel information , please see here . information for authors list of accepted papers this web page is maintained by ashutosh , ashutosh @ ifp.uiuc.edu last updated : june 21 , 1998
