home ~ about jd ~ contact us logo logo-resize navigation msc in fashion communication msc in textile technology bsc in fashion & apparel design bsc in interior design diploma in fashion design diploma in interior design diploma in jewellery design diploma in visual merchandising diploma in fashion business management diploma in fashion photography bangalore bhilai bhubneswar dibrugarh gurgaon guwahati gwalior indore jabalpur jaipur jammu kanpur kochi lucknow meerut mumbai navi mumbai new delhi noida patna pathankot raipur rajkot surat varanasi visakhapatnam photogallery video gallery layer2 layer1 menu student & parent login navigation navigation-resize pinkbg navigation wpcc_close end wpcc_con end popup_content wanitha-popup end wpcc_topopup end social icon social icon social icon social icon slide jquery handles to place the header background images slideshow controls jquery handles for the text displayed on top of the images slide bg slide bg slide find a course not sure what you want to study ? dont ' worry . select qualification s.s.l.c p.u.c graduation post graduation why jd ? advantage of jd students view gallery read jd fashion blog ! " fashion is never a product of a single person , nor does it come from a single moment of imagination. it takes a lot of hard work , blood and sweat to make things happen when it comes to striking a perfect balance between class and vogue. but 'vishal kapoor ' is one man who has really changed the paradigm on his own. he has single handedly changed the course of fashion and style. fashion is not what you wear anymore. style is no longer how you look. he has taken the meaning of looking good to the new heights , thanks to his imaginations , originality and creativity. " continue reading. . . admission apply online download prospectus course syllabus best college for fashion designing in india ~ jd institute of fashion technology education that gives you the edge.. . jd institute of fashion technology defines itself as the beacon that signals the infinite opportunities available in the indian fashion industry. we are committed to unearthing the most promising talents and putting them on the right path of academic achievements and professional fulfilment. if the fashion industry is where you aspire to be , learning the latest and most effective methodologies in fashion is your goal and a trusted , experienced and international name is what you seek- jd institute of fashion technology is where you should be . experience meets expertise.. . founded in 1988 , jd institute brings in over two decades of rich experience in creating fulfilling careers in the indian and international fashion industries. considered as one of the best fashion designing schools , as established by industry opinions and student feedback , jd institute offers defining courses in fashion technology that are applauded for being cutting edge , comprehensive , industry specific , progressive and highly relevant to the various disciplines that are part of the overall professional field of fashion designing . we create big names in fashion.. . anybody who is following the fortunes of the indian and international fashion industry should be aware of names like rocky s , shane & falguni , reza , gaurav chabra , urvashi kaur , maheka mirpuri , nitin - isha and niket mishra , all successful graduates of jd institute of fashion technology. our commitment to redefining education that pertains to the fashion industry has allowed us to successfully create an educational system that recognizes- nurtures and promotes gifted talent. at jd institute , we take our responsibility towards your future very seriously . would you like to know more about jd institute ? contact us today ! surely , we can help you choose the best academic path that leads to the most rewarding career in the fashion industry . top fashion designing institute / colleges/ schools in bangalore , delhi , mumbai and other major cities in india . m.sc in fashion communication m.sc in textile technology b.sc in fashion and apparel design b.sc in interior designing diploma in fashion design diploma in interior designing diploma in jewellery design diploma in visual merchandising diploma in fashion business management fashion photography jd campuses & centers : bangalore dibrugarh guwahati gwalior indore jabalpur jaipur jammu kanpur kochi lucknow meerut mumbai navi mumbai new delhi noida patna pathankot raipur surat varansi visakhapatnam logo-resize body container home about jd institute campuses & locations contact us site map academic programs curriculum admission details apply online msc in fashion communication msc in textile technology bsc in fashion and apparel design bsc in interior designing diploma in fashion design diploma in jewellery design diploma in visual merchandising diploma in fashion business management fashion photography alumni photo gallery video gallery activities news how to become a fashion designer ? all about fashion designing careers in fashion design all about fashion merchandising all copyrights to jd institute of fashion technology , india | website : mediajenie
