banner shoe lover : clear shoe boxes , news , views , sales , accessories sidebar1 media hits loulou l'or é al fashionweek sweetspot.ca citytv 's breakfast television outblush about.com daily stroll talk to the st ö r powered by : crafty syntax live help http : //www.craftysyntax.com/ copyright 2003 - 2006 by eric gerdes shoe st ö r click the chicklet to our blog via email shoe stor - home of the clear shoe box ! user photo about page link about shoes ! ( my pushers ! ) alexander mcqueen anne klein bally shoe factories ltd . betsey johnson bettye muller bruno magli casadei cole haan costume national cynthia rowley dansko dior dkny dolce & gabbana donald j pliner donna karan edmundo castillo emanuel ungaro emilio pucci escada fendi frye boots giuseppe zanotti gola gucci jamie kreitman jill stuart jimmy choo shoes john fluevog shoes kenneth cole online store lanvin liberty boot co . louis vuitton lucchese boot company manolo blahnik marc jacobs michael kors miu miu moschino nicole miller prada ralph lauren rene caovilla salvatore ferragamo sergio rossi sigerson morrison sonia rykiel steve madden stuart weitzman tracey ross fashion nuz ! fluxuries.com - hi ! -fashion portal . the budget fashionista : shopping tips , fashion advice , beauty reviews , online coupons for real women the stylephile fashionangel.com - your door to all the fashion on the web brittany ancell clotheshoarse s w e e t s p o t . ca fashion wire daily those who share my afflication ( shoes , silly ! ) shoes - articles , shopping , top picks & reviews of footwear miss meghan shoe spot news shoe addict kiss me stace pop star feets bata shoe museum the mecca of shoes addicted to shoes manolo ’ s shoe blog check out our stats ! webbot bot = " script " startspan preview = " site meter " copyright ( c ) 2005 site meter webbot bot = " script " endspan shoe store reviews david 's shoe store - toronto a true shoe conoisseur never misses a chance to walk through david 's on bloor street. highlight : their seasonal sales are a great time to stock up on fabulous buys. i scored a fabulous pair of yves st. laurent boots at one of their sales at half off the original $ 1000 ticket price. drawback : you can sometimes find the same shoes elsehwere for a better price. that being said , david 's service and insight is unparelled . friends of the st ö r stylehive - blog directory style bytes shangri law i am fashion sock dreams ~ sock journal la dolce divas yu hu stewardess my aim is true ekaterina carousel posts entry list sticky regular posts december 19 , 2009 another winter comes , which means its time for.. . more winter vacation shoes. so as shoelover once again retreats to the sunny climes of southern spaces to ward off the evil effects of winter , shoelover is once again faced with the dilemma of selecting a limited number of shoes to stick in the suit case. although shoelover does love the knee high leather boots that were recently acquired , they probably wont do well on the beaches of ixtapa when paired with a bikini , as shoelover is not going for the stripper look this season so the question remains , how does shoelover maximize the shoe quotient for this jaunt to the land of margaritas and powerful drug lords. let 's start with the basics......... for the pool : shoelover needs some flip flops. not the john kerry type of flip flop 's ( although shoelover would love the john kerry kind of spouse , you know the one with the rich dead ex-spouse ) . shoelover was thinking of something a little more tasteful like these , an $ 1,800 pair of flip flops covered in crystals by crystalishious. although given the economic downturn of the last few years , shoelover is n't sure the company is in business anymore as demand for outrageously overpriced items may have died everywhere but on wall street and investment bankers are loathed to be caught in public wearing funky shoes. alternatively , rather than wearing shoes at all , shoelover could find a hunky cabana boy to carry shoelover around the resort so shoelover does n't ruin the vacation pedicure. xoxo shoelover ps way down here you need a reason to move feel a fool running your stateside games lose your load , leave your mind behind , baby james oh , mexico it sounds so simple i just got to go the sun 's so hot i forgot to go home guess i 'll have to go now signature posted by shoelover on december 19 , 2009 at 06 : 40 am | permalink | comments ( 41 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links december 13 , 2009 veggie shoes ? stella mccartney denies teaming up with morrissey for vegan shoe range british fashion designer stella mccartney has denied reports that she is teaming up with pop star morrissey to create a range of leather-free shoes. a british tabloid had recently linked the two and suggested that they were in the process of designing animal-friendly footwear , and the daily mail had even quoted mccartney , 38 , as saying she was " really " excited about the project. the report has prompted mccartney to take to her facebook page to set the record straight . " stella is a fan of morrissey , but those rumours of a collaboration for a shoe line are simply not true , " contactmusic quoted her statement as reading . xoxo shoelover p.s. - heifer whines could be human cries closer comes the screaming knife this beautiful creature must die this beautiful creature must die a death for no reason and death for no reason is murder and the flesh you so fancifully fry is not succulent , tasty or kind it 's death for no reason and death for no reason is murder and the calf that you carve with a smile it is murder and the turkey you festively slice it is murder do you know how animals die ? kitchen aromas are n't very homely it 's not " comforting " , cheery or kind it 's sizzling blood and the unholy stench of murder it 's not " natural " , " normal " or kind the flesh you so fancifully fry the meat in your mouth as you savour the flavour of murder no , no , no , it 's murder no , no , no , it 's murder oh ... and who cares about and animals life ? signature posted by shoelover on december 13 , 2009 at 11 : 02 am in all about feet , almost famous , sorta famous | permalink | comments ( 20 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links december 11 , 2009 almost as bad as socks and sandals.... . is socks and high heels . quick , someone arrest britney...... . socks and high heels ! britney spears shows she has n't got a clue how to dress stylishly in winter - daily mail xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on december 11 , 2009 at 09 : 14 am in what was she thinking ? , women 's shoes | permalink | comments ( 9 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links shoes of shame..... . pro-maoist rights group 'shoe garland ' two midnapore teachers activists of a pro-maoist group on thursday hung shoes around the neck of two school teachers and a non-teaching staffer in midnapore district , charging them with malpractice in recruiting a primary teacher . himangsu mahato , bhaktipada sen and anima rau were 'shoe garlanded ' in full public glare by the activists of 'people 's committee against police atrocities ' ( pcpa ) , for what they described as corruption in the recruitment at a primary school in palasi village . the trio were also paraded around the village . the pcpa activists alleged that the trio helped in the recruitment of an undeserving candidate , rakhahari babu in the teaching staff . " while recruiting primary school teachers they helped in recruitment of rakhahari babu , a candidate who ranked third in the selection procedure , " said pcpa activist . maoists have stepped up violence across eastern and central india. they have attacked schools and police stations , and used landmines and improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) to disrupt infrastructure development projects . they have also hijacked passenger trains including the prestigious super fast rajdhani express , beheaded policemen and suspected informers and attacked employees of mining companies . the main objective of the maoists is to prevent the development of infrastructure in remote areas , which so far has remained their exclusive domain . thousands have been killed by maoists in the recent past. prime minister manmohan singh has described the maoist threat one of the gravest homegrown threats to india 's internal security . the rebels claim they are fighting for the rights of poor farmers and landless labourers. ( ani ) this gives a new meaning to the term bad shoes......... xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on december 11 , 2009 at 07 : 09 am in all about feet | permalink | comments ( 14 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links november 17 , 2009 chuck that shoe away houston rockets forward trevor ariza loses his shoe on a play -- former rockets forward ron artest grabs it and tosses it away from him into the stands xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on november 17 , 2009 at 09 : 06 pm in nasty shoes | permalink | comments ( 9 ) | trackback ( 1 ) technorati tags post footer links november 16 , 2009 trendy shoes for 2009 well , if you want to take advice from people who live in baltimore that is.... trendy shoes for fall 2009 - baltimore sun xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on november 16 , 2009 at 09 : 00 pm in all about feet | permalink | comments ( 6 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links putting the high in high heels imagine that , successful women smoke weed............oh the horrors........ . xoxo shoelover only on fox 6 : high heels signature posted by shoelover on november 16 , 2009 at 09 : 13 am in a drink a day | permalink | comments ( 6 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links wasting money on cheap shoes ( aka the bigger fool ) ? you know , if you have some patience and search a little , you can probably find a real pair of jimmy choo 's on sale somewhere jimmy choo for h&m shoes selling for double on ebay -marieclaire eager shoppers were out in force on saturday morning , as jimmy choo 's eagerly anticipated h&m collection less than 24 hours after the pieces went on sale , hundreds have hit ebay selling for well-over the original high street price-tag. many of the much-coveted heels are now selling for double the original price - after styles sold out within hours in store. the keenest shoppers started queuing 14 hours before shops opened at 9am , to get their hands on the much-coveted collection. many pieces sold out within hours. shoelover thinks this is a perfect example of the bigger fool theory in action xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on november 16 , 2009 at 07 : 13 am in back in the closet , brand new , celebrity shoes , current affairs , jimmy choo , label whore | permalink | comments ( 4 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links november 15 , 2009 shoes fit for a king....or queen how much would you pay for a pair of shoes that michael jackson never wore ? well , if you were willing to pay anything more than $ 10,000 euros , they could have been yours ! shoes fit for a king -the stor when the late king of pop announced a comeback tour , who better to design his dancing boots than shoe maestro , giuseppe zanotti. though michael jackson passed away before his return to the stage , the shoe lives on. with design and functionality in mind , the shoe designer created three pairs – boots , flat gladiator sandals and ankle boots – adorned with swarovski crystals. all three pairs were made for rigorous dancing , but alas , they were not destined to be on stage. the rainbow-coloured ankle boots were donated by giuseppe zanotti to the amfar ( the foundation for aids research ) gala dinner , held in september during milan fashion week in italy. the pair was auctioned for € 10,000 ( rm50,703 ) , all of which went towards hiv/aids research. the other two models will be displayed at a show dedicated to the late singer , to be curated by ruschka bergman , jackson ’ s personal stylist who commissioned the shoes for the king. xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on november 15 , 2009 at 09 : 56 pm | permalink | comments ( 8 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links november 14 , 2009 a princess without her shoes. . princess letizia abandons her signature sky-high heels - hello magazine spain 's sartorially savvy princess letizia stepped out without her fashionable footwear yesterday during a state visit to india with her husband , prince felipe . in accordance with local custom , the royal couple slipped off their shoes – a pair of green snakeskin pumps for the princess – as they paid tribute to mahatma gandhi at his memorial in delhi . at the site , the prince and princess honoured the great pacifist with an offering of vibrant red and yellow flowers , as well as a moment of silence . the couple 's first official visit to india began on tuesday in bombay with a conference on spain and india 's economic relations . the trip continued with a special breakfast attended by the country 's president , pratibha patil . felipe and letizia also celebrated their own culture by inaugurating india 's first instituto cervantes , an international organisation that promotes the spanish language. shoelover hopes her feet do n't smell xoxo shoelover signature posted by shoelover on november 14 , 2009 at 06 : 19 pm in all about feet , almost famous , sorta famous , shoeish princess | permalink | comments ( 28 ) | trackback ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links next » sidebar2 shoe st ö r 's boxes click here to order in the u.s. and canada click here to order in south africa click here to order in other countries find shoelover on facebook shoe st ö r 's insanely messy closet contest recent comments north face outlet on shoes of shame..... . cheap jordan shoes on veggie shoes ? north face outlet on shoes of shame..... . true religion outlet on veggie shoes ? microsoft office on until october 15...... . microsoft office on shoes for the credit crunch... . microsoft office on fan mail microsoft office on shoes for the short man microsoft office on free feet......but not the good kind microsoft office on more trash from the queen of the chav 's recent posts another winter comes , which means its time for.. . veggie shoes ? almost as bad as socks and sandals.... . shoes of shame..... . chuck that shoe away trendy shoes for 2009 putting the high in high heels wasting money on cheap shoes ( aka the bigger fool ) ? shoes fit for a king....or queen a princess without her shoes. . archives december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 january 2009 october 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 more.. . categories 2005 - the year in shoe a drink a day accessories all about feet almost famous , sorta famous alotta prada ann klein baby shoes back in the closet bad ass boots ! bata shoe museum better than an orgasm boxes , boxes and more boxes boy shoes brand new celebrity shoes chanel chic child shoes christian louboutain christian louboutin chuck taylor current affairs dance shoes dior discount shoes diversions doggie paws dolce & gabbana eavesdropping exotic escada f.a.q . famous people who went to camp new moon fan mail ferragamo fluevog foam shoe tree foot care games geriatric shoes girl shoes gucci heirs & grace hot blogger infatuations jimmy choo kabul kick'n back label whore le geek , c'est chic manolo media whoring men 's shoes miu miu montreal nails nasty shoes new shoe stor stuff new york nu shooz online organization orgnaization pucci , oh pucci ! pursed purses ! running shoes sandals sandals everywhere sexy shoes shoe basics shoe care shoe crime shoe food shoe humor shoe sales shoe shopping shoe stor shoe week in review shoeguy 's bad drawing shoeish princess shoes at work shoo nuz ! skates..........boots with blades skillful stilettos south africa sox steve " jail house rock " madden super models today 's shoes toronto tracey ross used shoes vintage shoes walkin ' shoes wayne 's picks wedding shoes weitzman what was she thinking ? women 's shoes ysl subscribe to this blog 's feed start quantcast tag end quantcast tag begin comscore tag end comscore tag begin disqus tag end disqus tag
