corset a personal blog about corsets , corsetry , corset stories , corset pictures , corset advice , experiences , tight lacing , waist training , high heels , feminin fashion , burlesque , .. . pages home corset shopping corrects ie6 width calculation welcome on my corset blog ! ! ! in this corset-blog i write about corset advice , corset stories , news , and tips & tricks on how to integrate corsets into your daily lives. hope you enjoy reading my posts about me and my passion for corsets . google_ad_section_start ( name = default ) one girl - two corsets ? one girl - two corsets.. . which corset should i choose ? which one fits best ? ? a really tough question ; ) i think that both look very good , but i tend to the black underbust corset with white pinstripes which i would like to wear with this outfit. for my casual or normal outfits in everyday life i normally choose underbust corsets or waist cinchers because they are much more comfortable to wear for a long time and i can move a bit more. the black one with the white pinestripes and the scottish higland green plaid corset are both 20inch corsets - but on this pics they are not fully closed as i wear them above my clothes. so i might have a 21inch waist ; ) . well , i finally chose the black underbust corset ; ) ! sorry for not posting an update at my corsetblog for such a long time. but now everything is sorted out and i ’ m back at blogging ; ) ! ! ! have you recognized the new look of the blog already ? hope you like it ! ! tightlaced greetings and kisses - viv . email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest postet by vivian van veen on 3/28/2012 1 comments labels : 20inch , custom made corset , pencil skirt , photos , skirt , underbust corset , waist cincher , waist corset , waspwaist white over-bust corset the newest corset in my collection - a 22 inch white satin over-bust corset. this very nice and curvy designed corset has a double spiral boning which gives the corset a perfect shape. on this photos my friend is wearing it over a stretch pencil skirt together with high heels. stretch clothings under a corset are perfect as they still fit without creasing when the corset is laced tighter. this quite long overbust corset is shaping her body to a really very nice and feminine figure. with a jacket worn over the corset its up to her if she wants everybody to know that she 's wearing a corset ; ) . these corset-pix were take with my iphone just before leaving home - so please excuse the poor quality. my favorite photo is the one where she bends over a bit ( the 2nd one ) - it really emphasizes the tight corseted waist . thanks to orchard corset for sending me this very nice designed corset ! ! tightlaced greetings and kisses - vivian email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest postet by vivian van veen on 8/08/2011 4 comments labels : corset , high heels , overbust corset , pencil skirt , tightlacing 21 inch custom made corset 21 inch custom made under-bust corset - a well corseted business-lady.... . a few weeks ago a friend of mine visited me - some longterm corsetblog-readers might already know her ( she posted some corset photos of her on this corset blog a while ago - e.g. tightlaced waist corset ) . she stayed at my place for 3 days - and yes , we did a corset-fotoshooting ! ! ! ! ; ) she wears her 21 inch black underbust corset. its a custom made corset from vollers and stil fits her really very nice. she does n't wear corsets daily anymore and so the corset is not fully closed - which means she has a 22 or even a 23 inch waistline in these pix. normally she wears this corset only under the clothes but as we said we would like to look like sexy business ladies she wore it over a blouse and a short mini skirt ; ) . well , it was really nice to see her again and we had a lot of fun while making these corset photos . hope you like them too ; ) . tight laced greetings and kisses - vivian email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest postet by vivian van veen on 7/02/2011 2 comments labels : corset , custom made corset , high heels , mini skirt , stockings , tightlacing , underbust corset , waist training , waspwaist overbust corset ball gown my newest corset - a very nice and long victorian style , green brocade overbust corset from orchard corset . i just tried it on last night to see how this corset will look like with my long skirts and long black gloves and my friend just took some fotos. so please excuse the poor quality of these corset photos - as it was not a regular corset-photoshooting ; ) . but for sure you 'll see some more pix of this corset on my corset blog. i 'll wear this overbust corset ball gown tonight at a ball. and as it ist not laced very tight this is perfect for dancing on a ball . do n't waste your waist - stay tight laced . kisses - vivian email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest postet by vivian van veen on 2/12/2011 3 comments labels : ball corset , ball gown , brocade corset , gloves , long corset , overbust corset 21inch waist cincher corset these corsetpix are actually my favorite fotos so far. the corset-outfit should look like a sexy school girl uniform. and i think i did a good job ; ) . i wear a quite tight laced 21 inch waist cincher corset over a white blouse , a very short black miniskirt , black stockings and of course heels. to make to school uniform look perfect i wear a black tie as well . fully closed the corset would have a 20inch waistline - but as it is not fully closed - it might be around 21inches. sorry that i ca n't show you a view from the back. as i have a quite curvy figure tightlaced to 21inch already looks amazing as i think. nearly a waspwaist ; ) . hope you like this photos as much as i do ? ! thanks a lot to orchardcorsets who sent me this corset . tight laced greetings & kisses - vivian there is a pictureset available of this corset-photoshooting - containing 12 high res corset images . buy now for just € 6.92 email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest postet by vivian van veen on 2/01/2011 3 comments labels : 21inch , high heels , mini skirt , school uniform , stockings , underbust corset , waist cincher , waist corset , waist training , waspwaist google_ad_section_end older posts home subscribe to : posts ( atom ) about me vivian van veen 22 year old girl. kind of " addicted " to corsets , high heels , stockings and feminin fashion... more information about me - see my high heels and stockingsblog or my corsetblog view my complete profile support me and my passion .. . thank you ! search corsetblog loading.. . corset details my corsets i write about .. . 20inch ( 2 ) 21inch ( 1 ) ball corset ( 6 ) ball gown ( 4 ) brocade corset ( 1 ) burlesque ( 1 ) corset ( 19 ) corset underneath ( 5 ) custom made corset ( 2 ) dress ( 6 ) gloves ( 3 ) high heels ( 43 ) images ( 1 ) jeans ( 3 ) legs ( 3 ) lingerie ( 1 ) long corset ( 1 ) mini dress ( 3 ) mini skirt ( 22 ) overbust corset ( 20 ) pencil skirt ( 2 ) photos ( 2 ) purple corset ( 1 ) school uniform ( 2 ) skirt ( 16 ) stockings ( 16 ) tightlacing ( 19 ) underbust corset ( 38 ) waist cincher ( 24 ) waist corset ( 22 ) waist training ( 25 ) waspwaist ( 11 ) corset details corsetlaces corset blog roll my corset images in high resolution i more corset images in high resolution ii higher heel ( my high heel blog ) my german korsett-blog lisa - staylace corset details corsetlacing corset blog archive ▼ 2012 ( 1 ) ▼ march ( 1 ) one girl - two corsets ? ► 2011 ( 5 ) ► august ( 1 ) ► july ( 1 ) ► february ( 2 ) ► january ( 1 ) ► 2010 ( 6 ) ► december ( 2 ) ► february ( 2 ) ► january ( 2 ) ► 2009 ( 14 ) ► december ( 9 ) ► november ( 1 ) ► october ( 1 ) ► september ( 1 ) ► june ( 1 ) ► april ( 1 ) ► 2008 ( 12 ) ► october ( 1 ) ► september ( 1 ) ► august ( 2 ) ► july ( 3 ) ► june ( 2 ) ► may ( 1 ) ► march ( 1 ) ► january ( 1 ) ► 2007 ( 21 ) ► december ( 1 ) ► november ( 1 ) ► october ( 1 ) ► september ( 1 ) ► august ( 1 ) ► july ( 1 ) ► june ( 1 ) ► may ( 3 ) ► april ( 2 ) ► march ( 4 ) ► february ( 3 ) ► january ( 2 ) ► 2006 ( 14 ) ► december ( 4 ) ► november ( 2 ) ► september ( 1 ) ► august ( 1 ) ► july ( 1 ) ► may ( 1 ) ► march ( 4 ) support me ? thank you ! ! ! subscribe to corsetblog posts atom posts all comments atom all comments corsetgirl translated by google corset feedreaders bookmark and share corsetblog pageviews last 30 days columns main outside of the include in order to lock attribution widget listed in. . sexyblogtop.com start sexyblogtop.com end topblogarea.com start bollywood topblogarea.com end begin blogtoplist tracker code heroes end blogtoplist tracker code begin blogtoplist voting code end blogtoplist voting code blogsweet web directory blogarama all pictures , photos and texts on www.corsetgirl.blogspot.com are copyright by the author vivian. awesome inc. template. powered by blogger . nrelate content
