skip links for text browsers skip to main | skip to sidebar pages home subscribe : the secret life of shoes walking a mile in my shoes ads 468x60px 65 pairs and counting ! donations accepted popular posts cat killed by woman in stiletto heels this is the worst thing i had heard regarding animal cruelty. it makes me sick to think about it. cyber sadists have figured out a way to .. . the pope 's red burial shoes * * * update : 04-23-05 * * * i have noticed that benedict xvi is wearing the red papal shoes. he has gone back to the tradition of wearing the.. . cupcake shoes ! these adorable , fashionable cupcakes are featured in the new cookbook from karen tack and alan richardson , cupcakes , cookies & pie , o.. . flavor of love : hoopz and flavor flav flavor of love : flavor flav and hoopz sexy hoopz pictures flavor of love 2 flavor flav is having a baby ! see article below ! who is.. . celebrities pose nude in jimmy choo shoes * * * update : 02/16/06 * * * celebrities pose nude in jimmy choo shoes i will post a few tasteful pictures here of the celebrities. ( if my sca.. . dark shoes dark shoe links pennangalan hot topic mission boutique alternative footwear gargoyle clothing blicker rivithead wicked road warrior working shoes adidas avia converse nike asics reebok new balance saucony sketchers keds fila k swiss farm etonic montrail mizuno north face brooks air jordans daily shoes nine west chinese laundry bandolino timberland kenneth cole dansko birkenstock aigner florsheim rockport sebago bass hushpuppies ugg busterbrown candies white mountain van eli easy spirit capezio dexter cole haan stacy adams eastland wolverine lifestride coach polo gucci brooks brothers dyeables durango burberry stuart weitzman recent reads text featured posts google_ad_section_start ( name = default ) saturday , august 02 , 2014 long toe nails are a fail ! i was out about a week or so ago and saw a distant acquaintance with sandals on. from a distance everything looked good. toes were polished and the sandals were cute. as i got closer to say hello in passing i looked at her toes and was most unpleasantly surprised ! omg ! her toe nails were very long and hung over her shoes. they were painted and even decorated. after seeing that i wondered how she wore closed-in shoes all winter ! ! ! how did all of that fit into shoes or pumps ! she often wears very high heels ! all i could think of is that was a serious fail ! omg ! really ? ? ? if your toe nails look like something that could scoop up a fish from the river , please do something about that. polish and decorations can not make that pretty up close ! what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 8/02/2014 12 : 28 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : fail , feet , ghetto , ghettoes , prettyfeet , ratchet , toes the fall heels ! high vs low for the past year i have been unable to wear my really high heels. they just do n't feel as comfortable as they used to. am i getting older ? is that the issue ? not too sure or is it just a time when i feel unstable on those higher heels. now slightly lower heels are much more comfortable. i am thinking i will go with those for now. maybe ! the awful thing is that i have a closet full of heels. most of them high. so i have a closet full of shoes that i mostly just look at now. sad ! i really think that of you do not wear the high heels for a while you get out of practice teetering in them and being comfortable. i have gotten out of practice ! i am going to have to change that. i have so many beautiful shoes that i need to be wearing. they cost lots of money. so. i will be donning some of them when the fall really gets here. most of my higher heels do go with all my winter styles. so higher heels , i will be heading your way soon. for now its still flip flops and sandals during these lazy days of summer . what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 8/02/2014 12 : 02 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : designer shoes , fall , heels , highheels , summer , summer shoes sunday , july 28 , 2013 working in a new pair of shoes last week i wore these shoes to work for the very first time ! it was a struggle. very cute and i got them on sale at my local steinmart. they are cork and painted to boot with a little sparkle. i love them and i think they will eventually get broken in but they were hurting after the first hour. when i got back to my desk and was going to be there for awhile i slipped them off and put on the flip flops. i love these for summer. they will go with many things since they are on the neutral side. happy summer ! do you have all your summer shoes lined up ? i have several other pairs i have not pulled out of the closet yet ! so more to come . what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/28/2013 01 : 24 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : cork , new shoes , new york transit , summer , summer shoes , wedge shoes , wedges steadier shoes sometimes life throws us for a loop and we become dependent upon the wrong things. things that only make us feel good for the moment. in those moments of brief bliss we feel great but when we come down reality hits us like a ton of bricks and the world can come crashing down. at times total control is lost and friends and family will need to step in to help us make the change that we can not make ourselves. it is the change that can save our life. it seems that our lifestyles today make us more prone to making the wrong choices when it comes to dependency upon alcohol or drugs. luckily there are places that can provide a place for us to rest , get help and eventually find our way back. back to steadier shoes. back to better choices and a life without dependency . if you or a loved one needs healing and recovery , consider orange county alcohol rehab . it is a private facility staffed with licensed therapists and counselors , located in california. it actually bridges the gap between primary care and independent care treatment centers. in regards to care , the staff there realizes that one mode of treatment will not work for everyone , so they offer several modalities of treatment to meet the varied needs of the clients in the program. as you progress in treatment you walk through three different phases that range from stabling and centering to self awareness to re-entry into the community. orange county alcohol rehab offers comprehensive services. not only to they offer alcohol and drug treatment but also food addition treatments also. interventions , employee assistance programs and even alternative sentencing are offered. that is great. that will save someone from jail time and get them into immediate treatment. coaching and relapse prevention are also offered. i know that coaching and relapse prevention will be a life long thing for those recovering from addition. they live one day at a time and fight their battle daily . while you are at orange county alcohol rehab you will have all your basic needs taken care of so patients are able to focus just on themselves and getting better. you will be housed in a beautiful home in a private or semiprivate room complete with 24 hour on site managers , gym , laundry facilities and free transportation to aa meetings. those are just a few of the services provided. consider this facility. it offers structured , individual , continual care that will allow progression from active drug use to reintegration into mainstream society. with successful outcomes , steadier shoes will follow . what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/28/2013 01 : 11 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest monday , april 15 , 2013 spring shoe assessment spring is here and i have been looking in the closet seeing what i have to match the clothes i have. with it being spring i am just about ready to move all the dark clothes to the back side of the closet and move the spring and summer up front. well , upon looking at my shoes i now realize that it may be time to go shoe shopping. the shoes i wore all last spring and summer are just about worn out. the support is gone and some are missing design items .they really are worn. i think now is time to go shoe shopping. serious shoe shopping. all my shoes....well not all....need replacement. the vast majority of my shoes are all heels. i still have a lot of those heels which will wear well this spring and summer but i think i am going for diversity. i think i will be buying some lower heels and wedges. i might even have to break down and buy flats. i have not had a pair of dress flats in my closet for at least 10 years. i am excited. shoes ! shopping ! what can be better ! i find now that shopping on the weekdays are better. i can avoid the crowds ( which i hate ) and the selection is better because the trucks are unloaded during the week. first choice on the styles. my size is a bigger size , so most of the time only one or two pairs will come. so i need to get there first. shopping is on the agenda for this friday. i am planning to go after cleaning and doing some laundry. got ta get those mundane things done first. shoes always does a mind and a body good. especially the body. if the shoes do not fit , it will be a terrible day ! what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 4/15/2013 09 : 48 : 00 am 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : shoes , shopping , spring , spring shoes monday , february 25 , 2013 whiz , amber and baby makes three you know , i have a teen and i try to keep up with what is happening in her world. that is a way that we can stay connected. i know all about the generation gap that my parents and i had. when i was still single and thinking about a family i vowed to try to keep that gap at bay with my own children. i think i have done that for the majority of the time. i keep up with the shows the kids are watching on tv , the music , fashions. i think that any good parent has to in order to keep the bad things that draw young people in away . for the most part when it comes to music that has been easy. i am a fan of all sorts of music. the explicit rap...not so much. well at christmas time , my child told me she wanted me to take her to the coliseum so that she could by concert tickets to see whiz. well , he was one person i had not heard of. my daughter is apparently a big fan of him and amber. since then i have of course investigated and found out all about him. she even has a poster of him on her wall. well , can we say enough tattoos ? well , after hearing that my child followed them both on twitter , i then had to find out who amber was. well joy to them both. they just had a new baby ! amber rose has said that she and wiz khalifa fell for each other hard and fast , and that 's been evident over the past couple of years. the pair officially began dating in 2011 , and since then , they 've been inseparable. they got engaged last spring , sharing the moment with fans on twitter , and they welcomed their first child , sebastian thomaz , into the world thursday — but it 's been a memorable ride throughout . congratulations to whiz and amber. i still only know the surface things but the fact that they are a family unit goes a long way with me . ﻿ what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 2/25/2013 10 : 10 : 00 am 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : amber , amber rose , baby , celebrities , celebrity gossip , whiz friday , july 13 , 2012 scotland....waiting scottish shoes is what i will be needing in about a year or so. i have the opportunity to go there with our choir. we will be singing at st. andrews. in addition we will be touring several other areas as well...london and ireland. i can not wait ! it will be my first trip to europe. while we will be going to sing , we will have a chance to explore. my camera will not be leaving my hands ! i have just checked out the bbc series from the library : the history of scotland. it has been amazing so far. what a brutal time it was in the early history. it is a great series. no stone unturned and well done in great detail. there seems to be a lot of information on the visit scotland site as well. from the videos and pictures it is a beautiful but forlorn looking place. the wide open spaces are amazing . it will be a once in a lifetime trip and i am going. i missed out on the last one when the choir went to australia and new zealand. i am determined not to miss any more trips like this. my daughter is going to. it will be her first trip to europe as well. i am excited for her to be going. and for the two of us to go together. i can not wait ! scotland here we come in the early fall of 2013 ! ! ! i know that i will be able to see nessie when i come..she will show herself to me ! what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/13/2012 12 : 35 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : europe , john rutter , requiem , rutter , scotland , st. andrews , travel kim kardashian and kanye west now wearing matching outfits kim kardashian and kanye west now wearing matching outfits i have never been a kanye fan. he has always been just a little too over the top and ghetto for me. i don ; t know...something about him just turns me off. i do not listen to his music either. as for kim kardashian , well i did not know who she was until a " minute " ago. it was well after rayj that i realized who she was. these two as a couple just do not seem well fitted for each other . how many men can kim go through ? apparently many. way too many for me to keep up with. maybe i am jaded. i just can not get excited about celebrities and their drama. celebrity life seems way too trite. all their money and opportunity does not really help them. they get caught up in drugs and drama just because they have nothing else to do....too little time and too much fun and excess. so , kim and kanye....who cares if your outfits match ? most of america wonder how they can afford a decent outfit ! heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/13/2012 12 : 14 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : celebrities , celebrity gossip , kanye , kanye west , kim kardashian slippery tax shoes nothing can be as slippery as taxes. they can be quite a tangled web. in years past i have done my own and have also had others do them for me. a few years ago i had considered taking a few tax courses , thinking that if i had the proper knowledge i could do my own and be sure i was doing them the correct way. i never did follow up on it and make an actual move in that direction but , if you are interested in that , there are courses and classes that will get you prepared to do so . under the irs rules in order to prepare taxes for money you must be qualified and even certified. fastforward academy has a course that includes practice exams and questions that will most likely be on the irs special enrollment exam. they have a bank of online questions that are taken from past exams to get you ready for the real test. the questions are current and span several testing seasons. there is even a money back guarantee. if you do not pass the test on the first time , per request , they will analyze your test results , coach you in the areas you are weakest and provide course materials for the next testing season , at no cost to you . you can not get a better class because the results are in the pudding. there is a 94 % pass rate for the majority of people who take this tax class the first time. the course also includes enough information to assist with continuing education hours that are required each year. real world examples are used throughout the entire course to give you the focus you need to meet every tax challenge . if you are inclined to move into the world of taxes , enroll. the tax season has just recently ended , but you will have more than enough time to get ready for next year. fastforward academy has many happy students. be sure to check out some of the testimonials from satisfied students . what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/13/2012 09 : 53 : 00 am 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest tuesday , july 10 , 2012 dirty pirate popsicles here is a great way to beat the heat ! i could use one of these right now ! dirty pirate popsicles dirty pirate popsicles 2 1/2 cups coke 1/3 cup captain morgan spiced rum 1/3 cup kahlua instructions : 1.place all ingredients in a large glass and stir to combine. pour mixture into popsicles mold. 2. freeze for about 2 hours or until mixture starts to solidify enough to hold a popsicle stick upright. insert popsicle sticks and finish freezing popsicles overnight. to release popsicles run hot water on the outside of popsicle molds for a 2-3 seconds. * slightly flat coke will produce a popsicle that stays frozen longer. to quickly and manually flatten out the carbonation , empty out enough coke from a 2-liter bottle to leave a 3-inch space from top of bottle to top of coke. place cap back on and shake vigorously for 10 seconds. set aside to leave bubbles to subside . what do women want ? shoes ! ~ ~ mimi pond heels clickin ' by my shoes @ 7/10/2012 02 : 57 : 00 pm 0 broken heels email this blogthis ! share to twitter share to facebook share to pinterest labels : captain morgan spiced rum , coke , dirty pirate popsicles , kahlua , popsicles , recipes , rum. summer google_ad_section_end older posts home subscribe to : posts ( atom ) about me my shoes view my complete profile search this blog loading.. . creative commons license creative commons license this work is licensed under a creative commons license /creative commons license all words here owned by the poster. put your best shoe forward. no reproduction without permission. copyright @ 2012 loading.. . there was an error in this gadget popular shoes the century in shoes gaza bowen gallery four inches liquid matrixity fetish : abused shoes flavor flav and hoopz star jones fired the hodgepodger mbt shoes world 's most expensive shoes choosing running shoes stiletto heel workout gammarelli : pope 's taylor pope 's red shoes 51 paper bags my 100 things powered by blogger . blog archive blog archive aug 2014 ( 2 ) jul 2013 ( 2 ) apr 2013 ( 1 ) feb 2013 ( 1 ) jul 2012 ( 7 ) jun 2012 ( 2 ) apr 2012 ( 3 ) mar 2012 ( 16 ) feb 2012 ( 24 ) sep 2011 ( 8 ) apr 2011 ( 2 ) mar 2011 ( 1 ) nov 2010 ( 3 ) oct 2010 ( 19 ) may 2010 ( 1 ) nov 2008 ( 1 ) sep 2008 ( 10 ) aug 2008 ( 3 ) jul 2008 ( 2 ) apr 2008 ( 3 ) mar 2008 ( 1 ) feb 2008 ( 2 ) oct 2007 ( 9 ) sep 2007 ( 6 ) jul 2007 ( 6 ) jun 2007 ( 8 ) may 2007 ( 10 ) apr 2007 ( 14 ) mar 2007 ( 1 ) feb 2007 ( 4 ) jan 2007 ( 1 ) nov 2006 ( 7 ) oct 2006 ( 9 ) sep 2006 ( 26 ) aug 2006 ( 19 ) jul 2006 ( 20 ) jun 2006 ( 13 ) may 2006 ( 9 ) apr 2006 ( 15 ) mar 2006 ( 19 ) feb 2006 ( 18 ) jan 2006 ( 4 ) dec 2005 ( 17 ) nov 2005 ( 18 ) oct 2005 ( 31 ) sep 2005 ( 26 ) aug 2005 ( 15 ) jul 2005 ( 7 ) jun 2005 ( 17 ) may 2005 ( 18 ) apr 2005 ( 34 ) mar 2005 ( 43 ) feb 2005 ( 29 ) jan 2005 ( 18 ) dec 2004 ( 32 ) nov 2004 ( 25 ) oct 2004 ( 23 ) sep 2004 ( 13 ) aug 2004 ( 31 ) jul 2004 ( 44 ) jun 2004 ( 37 ) may 2004 ( 38 ) apr 2004 ( 21 ) skinny shoes 10,000 steps winsor pilates rice diet big george 's place billie blanks bap tise power yoga south beach diet jenny craig the cabbage soup diet weight watchers the biggest losers denise austin rings top100bloggers.com webring top100bloggers.com webring join ring hub random prev next / top100bloggers.com webring web ring blogs by women followers visitors webbot bot = " htmlmarkup " startspan alt = " site meter " webbot bot = " htmlmarkup " endspan cq counter code start spacer for skins that want sidebar and main to be the same height end content-wrapper end outer-wrapper remmeber ! ! ! this free blogger template is licensed under the creative commons attribution 3.0 license. you are required to keep the footer links intact which provides due credit to its author and supporters . copyright ( c ) 2011 the secret life of shoes . design by web design naperville - free blogger templates , free wordpress themes , advisor price
