top reveal ( slides open , add class " topreveal " to links for open/close toggle ) close button close new member registration not a member yet ? register now and get started . register for an account installment loans durham nc alternate login sign in to your account . account login username password sign in forgot your password ? end of content end of content site container main menu main menu links home about us classes class schedule mules pump platform pump boot sandal flat thong sandal ballet flat men ’ s ( new ! ) pattern making spectator shoe i ’ m a shoe designer handbag design consultancy pattern design u.s. manufacturing class registration recent media search logo end of content slide show : jquery cycle ( default ) showcase content design consultancy we offer professional design , manufacturing and marketing for high end designer shoes. find out more sign up for a class today learn how to make the famous " heel-less " shoe sign up today ! ! ! end of content page content page headline welcome to welcome message get your creative juices flowing and your feet wet , so to speak , at international shoemaking design , which offers an intensive 2-day workshop for serious-minded footwear designers to hone your shoemaking skills , learn the anatomy of the foot and construction of a shoe. upon completion , you ’ ll have made your very own mule , pump , sandal or boot style. in your size , of course. based outside in cleveland , sissy puccio , a london-trained shoe designer/maker and certified pedorthist , will privately walk you through an intensive workshop on what it takes to actually build a pair of shoes. prototype for your designs make patterns from your designs custom wood carved heels custom poured plastic heels no miminums for your shoe run “ american made ” “ ladies sizes 2-16 great fit ! testimonial/quote i was amazed at how my creativity soared when designing my shoes . eileen brennen end of content footer column 1 5340 hamilton avenue studio 106 cleveland , oh 44114 513-476-7489 info @ internationalshoemakingdesign.com column 2 follow us ! column 3 newsletter sign up just send your email address by text message : shoemaking to 22828 to get started. or click below contact us end of content column 1 end of content copyright 2011 international shoemaking design site design by top dog design - all rights reserved. conforms to w3c standard xhtml & css copyright/legal text copyright © 2010 - this site - all rights reserved. conforms to w3c standard xhtml & css activate font replacement ( cufon )
