parallaxis-iii - a structured data-parallel programming language description parallaxis is a structured programming language for data-parallel programming ( simd systems ) , developed by thomas br ä unl in 1989 . the language is based on sequential modula-2 , but extended by machine-independent parallel constructs. in parallaxis an abstraction is achieved by declaring a processor configuration in functional form , specifying number , arrangement , and connections between processors . with these " virtual processors and connections " , an application program can be constructed independent of the actual computer hardware . we believe this results in more readable and understandable parallel programs . parallaxis ftp-server for copying the parallaxis system parallaxis language description ( compressed postscript , 165kb ) a small sample parallaxis program another parallaxis program mpeg-animation created from the above program ( 500kb ) information about the latest version of parallaxis english book : br ä unl : parallel programming , prentice-hall , 1993 english book : br ä unl : parallel image processing , springer-verlag , 2001 german book : br ä unl : parallele programmierung , vieweg-verlag , 1993 german book : br ä unl : parallele bildverarbeitung , addison-wesley , 1995 german book : br ä unl : massiv parallele programmierung mit dem parallaxis-modell , springer-verlag , informatik-fachberichte , 1990 russian book : br ä unl : parallel programming , vyschshaya shkola publishers , kiev , 1997 compiler the parallaxis system comprises compilers for sequential and parallel computer systems. use man p3 to find out more about it : name p3 - parallaxis-iii user interface synopsis p3 { options } [ file ] .. . debugger the parallaxis debugger ( p3gdb and xp3gdb ) is an extension to the gnu gdb and xgbd debugger . it behaves as a parallaxis source level debugger with all usual features of the gnu debugger , e.g. breakpoints , single steps , printing data , plus two parallel extensions . print vector data in graphical form display pe usage as a chart parallel applications the parallaxis system comprises a number of sample software packages available via ftp . the current areas are : basic : introductory examples diff-eq : solution of differential equations genetic-algs : parallel genetic algorithms graphics : basic graphics functions , window op. , area filling , etc. in c neural-nets : parallel neural networks numerical : sorting and systems of linear equations open : demonstration of the open vector concept scripts : auxiliary unix scipts for compilation , library generation simulation : head propagation , voting behavior , traffic jams stereo : stereo vision algorithms storage : dynamic data structures strings : integer - string conversion vision : major library of parallel image processing routines x-window : sample programs using graphics library for x windows the sequential version runs on almost all unix systems : sun sparcstation ( sun-os , solaris ) , decstation , hp 9000 , ibm rs6000 , sgi iris , ibm-pc with linux . there are parallel versions for maspar mp-1 , mp-2 , workstations clusters ( using pvm ) and intel paragon ( spmd mode ) . parallaxis-iii has been implemented using the gmd compiler generation toolkit by eduard kappel , hartmut keller , harald lampke , j ö rg stippa , and j ü rgen wakunda , under direction of thomas br ä unl . thomas br ä unl
