parallel computing 101 quentin f . stout christiane jablonowski parallel computers are easy to build -- it 's the software that takes work . see us at supercomputing sc13 in denver . abstract this tutorial provides a comprehensive overview of parallel computing and supercomputing , emphasizing those aspects most relevant to the user . it is suitable for new or prospective users , managers , students , and anyone seeking a general overview of parallel computing. it discusses software and hardware , with an emphasis on standards , portability , and systems that are commercially or freely available. systems examined include clusters , tightly integrated supercomputers , and gpus . the tutorial provides training in parallel computing concepts and terminology , and uses examples selected from large-scale engineering , scientific , and data intensive applications. these real-world examples are targeted at distributed memory systems using mpi , shared memory systems using openmp , and hybrid systems that combine the mpi and openmp programming paradigms . gpu programming is also discussed . the tutorial shows basic parallelization approaches and discusses some of the software engineering aspects of the parallelization process , including the use of state-of-the-art tools. the tools introduced range from parallel debugging tools to performance analysis and tuning packages . we use large-scale projects as examples to help the attendees understand the issues involved in developing efficient parallel programs . examples include : crash simulation ( a complex distributed memory application parallelized for ford motor ) ; climate modeling ( an application highlighting distributed , shared , and vector computing ideas with examples from ncar , nasa and ecmwf ) ; space weather prediction ( an adaptive mesh code scaling to well over 1000 processors , funded by nasa/dod/nsf ) ; and design of ethical clinical trials ( a memory-intensive application funded by nsf ) . attendees find the lessons convincing , and occasionally humourous , because we discuss mistakes as well as successes . audience anyone needing a 1-day overview of parallel computing and supercomputing . this includes new or prospective users , managers , or people needing a refresher on current systems and techniques , with pointers to additional resources and follow-up material . approximately 70 % of the presentation is at the beginner level , 30 % intermediate level . if you are at the truly beginner level , you can always first look at my slightly whimsical explanation of parallel computing . schedule this is usually presented as a full-day ( 6 hour ) tutorial , in 4 segments of 1.5 hours each. this can be adjusted to fit the circumstances . for example , some companies may want to use is a part of their technical training , and it can be expanded to include some hands-on work on their systems. with special arrangements , a more comprehensive class on parallel computing can be taught . for people near ann arbor , they can attend quentin stout 's class on parallel computing , eecs 587 , taught each fall semester . groups at more remote locations might be able to arrange for this class to be broadcast to them . contact : quentin f. stout computer science and engineering university of michigan , ann arbor , mi 48109-2121 usa + 1-734-763-1518 ( voice , messages ) + 1-734-763-4617 ( fax ) qstout @ umich.edu www.eecs.umich.edu/ ~ qstout/ copyright &copy 2005-2013 quentin f. stout
