welcome ! we are the parallel programming laboratory . our goal is to develop technology that improves performance of parallel applications while also improving programmer productivity. we aim to reach a point where , with our freely distributed software base , complex irregular and dynamic applications can ( a ) be developed quickly and ( b ) perform scalably on machines with thousands of processors . processor virtualization is one of our core techniques : the programmer divides the computation into a large number of entities , which are mapped to the available processors by an intelligent runtime system. this separation of concerns between programmers and the system is key to attaining both our goals together . parallel programming with migratable objects : charm + + in practice migratable objects science and engineering applications are increasingly becoming complex. further , we are faced with new challenges due to dynamic variations in the machine itself. in the face of these challenges , what are the key concepts that are essential for parallel applications to take advantage of today ’ s modern supercomputers ? in the paper accepted at sc14 , we describe key designs and attributes that have been instrumental in enabling efficient parallelization. the.. . recent activity 6 papers accepted at supercomputing'2014 abhishek gupta defends his phd thesis on hpc in cloud ehsan receives 3rd place award for acm student research competition grand finals 2014 harshitha menon receives the anita borg scholarship for 2014 nikhil receives ibm phd fellowship award lukasz receives ornl distinguished software award recent publications power management of extreme-scale networks with on/off links in runtime systems techniques for efficient high performance computing in the cloud evaluating and improving the performance and scheduling of hpc applications in cloud optimizing data locality for fork/join programs using constrained work stealing using an adaptive hpc runtime system to reconfigure the cache hierarchy copyright © 1996-2013
