designing and building parallel programs , by ian foster designing and building parallel programs ( online ) is an innovative traditional print and online resource publishing project . it incorporates the content of a textbook published by addison-wesley into an evolving online resource. here is a description of the book , and here is the table of contents . see also the list of mirror sites around the world . designing and building parallel programs ( online ) integrates four resources concerned with parallel programming and parallel computing : the content of designing and building parallel programs a collection of public-domain parallel software tools a collection of web tours providing access to other information on parallel computing various educational resources . we have prepared and presented a very successful full-day tutorial based on designing and building parallel programs. let us know if you are interested in seeing this presented elsewhere . read about what 's new on dbpp online. there are also a few errata . the content of designing and programming parallel programs is made available here by permission of the author and the publisher as a service to the community. it is intended to complement the use of the published text , which is protected by international copyright laws . the content available here may be accessed freely via web browsers but may not be archived or reproduced without written permission . designing and programming parallel programs is available wherever fine technical books are sold , or directly from addison wesley . we want to hear from our readers. please send us comments , suggestions , or material that you think we should include in this resource. you can contact us via email or via regular mail. you can also subscribe to our mailing list . an online publishing project of addison-wesley inc. , argonne national laboratory , and the nsf center for research on parallel computation . designing and building parallel programs v1.3 / dbpp @ mcs.anl.gov
