kegs - kent 's emulated gs an apple iigs emulator for mac os x , win32 , linux , and unix/x11 download version 0.91 - virtual modem support download readme.kegs from v0.91 download the changes file for v0.91 download the kegs v0.91 tar.gz file ( executables for mac os x and win32 , sources for all versions ) download kegs v0.86 source and executable tar.gz file ( previous release ) warning : the previous kegs release , v0.90 , has been pulled since it had a serious bug in handling smartport devices. large file copies from the finder ( and other gsos applications ) could have data corruption caused by a bug in new code in v0.90. version 0.91 and later have the bug corrected . prodos 8 applications were not vulnerable to the bug . samples and other utilities download a sample disk image ( not bootable ! ) download fta nucleus demo ( bootable sound and graphic demo ) download fta xmas_demo ( bootable sound and graphic demo ) view some screenshots ! ( finder , wolf3d , xmas demo , rastan ) gs/os apple ftp server with gs/os disks ( unfortunately , just .sea.bin , must convert on a mac ) getting a bootable disk image to use kegs , you need to get a rom image. i 'll write directions on how to generate the rom file later. some of the other emulator pages give directions on how to create a rom file . the are several ways to transfer files from your apple iigs to your machine. the method i use is to create shrinkit disk archives of the 5.25 " or 3.5 " disks you want to transfer. then , transfer those .shk files to your computer. you can use modem/serial line transfer , or some other less direct method. non-apple machines can not read the 800k 3.5 " disk format. sorry. i admit , all of these paths are tedious . once you have the .shk files on the workstation , you 're home free. use nulib to extract the disk image from the archive. edit kegs 's " kegs_conf " file to point to the image , and you 're off ! nulib works like tar : " nulib tv foo.shk " lists the archive and " nulib xv foo.shk " will extract the disk image. if you have .bxy files , you need to use " nulib xb foo.bxy " to extract the files . kegs information kegs emulates an apple iigs accurately at between 8mhz and 120mhz on pretty much any unix/linux computer , win32 , or mac os x . other apple iigs emulators and other kegs ports casags - kegs-os-x - a port of kegs using the sdl library to mac os x. has a better user interface than kegs. source code not available kegs sdl - frederic devernay 's port of kegs to use the sdl library , used as the basis of kegs-os-x. source available akilgard 's kegs for win32 - a more user-friendly port of kegs to win32. source available . bernie ] [ the rescue - nice emulator , but powermacintosh only. source code not available other apple iigs links nulib 2.0 shk and bxy archive handler for unix , windows , mac os x ground ftp site - apple iigs software the lost classics project - site getting apple ii and iigs software reclassified as freeware , with downloads . treasure chest project - another site getting apple ii and iigs software reclassified as freeware , with downloads. [ link broken now ] ninjaforce web site - web page of the ninjaforce , who wrote the megademo , which you can download here fta web site - web page of the fta , who wrote nucleus and many other demos emulation.net 's page of macintosh emulators , with lots of links for images , etc . sheppyware - eric shepherd 's site , includes wolf3d neil parker 's apple ii www and ftp list - pointers to freeware/shareware software ( many years out of date ) working apple ii links - pages of links to information , software , etc . fastcounter by bcentral send me e-mail if you want to be notified of kegs updates ( about one every few months , on average ) ( replace .com with .edu )
