back to home note : this programs runs only on macintosh ! ( system 7 , 8 , 9 & x ) adfs 1.0a36 what is it ? screen shots ! what 's next ? this page describes how to make disk images using adfs. the software on this site is shareware. it is all for free , and is fully functional. however , if you actually use it , the i 'm asking for a $ 20 donation. you can pay me at paypal . alpha testers are exempt , but i will gladly accept donations. call a.p.p.l.e. members get a discount ! june 25 , 2004 took a rather long break to work on rose . which is great because it uses yaaf , the cross platform framework. adfs a36 hilights : • fixed all prodos bugs ! now works with gs/os ! talk to me ! i need mail to feel alive ! downloads : we are currently in alpha testing. okay , so we 're not quite beta , but y'know , close enough. want to be a tester ? here is the beta tester page . here is the download page ! feature list for v1.0 : ( stuff in red italics is not implemented ) mount disks from any apple ii os : prodos , dos 3.3 , pascal , cp/m. mount non-standard disks eg : hybrid and 400k dos allow drag & drop of files/folders between images or to/from finder. get info on file , show preview , or double click to view file. support any disk image file format : raw , nib ( unprotected ) , 2img , diskcopy 4.2 support any sector order : dos , prodos , cp/m , copy ] [ + . create new disk images of any kind. with any os ( bootable ! ) converts awp & basic ( fp and int ) & binary ( disassembled ) to plain text ( detokenize ) flip attribute bits , set file type and aux type ( or a $ / " load address " ) undelete files , map disks , optimize disks change : sector order , catalog order , boot program , image file format ( can un-nibblize ! ) read/write physical floppy disks and hd partitions directly ( on os 9 and os x ) use floppy hardware to set or get disk images ( on os 9 and os x ) view by icon , remember icon positions , window positions find command plans for v1.1 : ( a while from now ) sector / block editor read / write nufx ( for .sdk , and possibly .shk and .bxy ) ( yup , a shareware macshrinkit ! ) gzip support maybe even act as the mac end of adt ! under consideration ( these are features i 'll consider if i get requests for them ) : support for 13 sector dos 3.2 disks support for rdos , davidos , other fast dos 's .
