kegs/sdl apple iigs emulator what is it ? here is my holiday hack on the great kegs apple iigs emulator , which consists of implementing an sdl driver for video , sound , keyboard , and joystick. this should make the emulator portable to many more oses ( incl. beos , macos , linux , win32 ) . the code is based on the original kegs , with modifications from the kegs32 port ( current version includes modifications up to kegs32r2 ) i also tried to keep other display/sound/joystick drivers , and modified the code to get better driver abstraction. the resulting code can now switch _at_run-time_ between different drivers ( there just had to be proper init/ shutdown for each of these ) . of course , i tried to integrate the win32 code from kegs32 , though i did n't manage to make a compiled version that supports both sdl and win32 ( but sdl and x11 work , both on linux and cygwin for win32 ) . maybe because i do n't know how the win32 resources have to be compiled in the program . the problem with sdl is that it has no graphic tookit , so i had to implement menus myself , and i did it in a " control-openapple-escape " way ( just type control-openapple-tab to get to the menu ) . the implementation is sdl-specific right now , but it should be able to work with any video driver ( i 'm using the apple ii font ! ) . i also cleaned up the code a lot ( prototypes declaration , static variables and functions ) , and hem... i decided to call it 0.61 ( since so many things have changed ) . screenshots the only visible difference with the original kegs is the kegs control panel , which can be reached by typing control-openapple-tab , as seen on these screenshots : 1 , 2 , 3 . you can also notice that the status lines are now using the apple ii font ( the basic sdl library has no font support ) . using sdl , kegs can now also run in fullscreen mode ( either 640x480 or 640x400 ) . todo i would like to add the following : possibility to paste text to the emulator ( on x11 and possibly win32 ) disk swapping facility ( probably os-specific too , possibly drag'n'drop ) . support for keyboards other than qwerty ( like the infamous french keyboard ) . download here is the resulting code , which i tried on linux , and on mswindows with the cygwin compiler ( i do n't have vc + + ) . kegs-sdl-0.64.tar.gz ( release notes ) kegs-0.63.tar.gz kegs-0.62-0.63.patch.gz kegs-0.61-0.62.patch.gz there is a patch for kegs 0.63 that optimizes palette changes ( which happen frequently in demos or games ) , but require a change in the sdl library. please read carefully the instructions inside . if anyone manages to compile and run it on anything other than linux , unix or cygwin , please contact me . links kegs , the original emulator by kent dickney , which was once behind kegs-sdl and kegs-osx in terms of functionnality , but kent decided not to integrate most of our changes into his version . kegs32 , a win32-specific version of kegs . casags , home of kegs-osx , the macos x port of kegs-sdl ( but not kegs... ) . sourceforge project page project site
