about | capabilities | screen shots | issues | future | requirements | sourceforge | download | developer documentation | command-line guide | historical | contact welcome to the applecommander web site ! click on a link to jump to the appropriate section , or continue on and read it all ! applecommander is hosted at sourceforge . about applecommander is a little project whose main purpose is to provide a tool to move data between apple ] [ disk images and a native filesystem ( 'c : \ ' for windows , or '/wherever ' for linux and mac os x ) . as with all good projects , this one is a little out of hand , and it is becoming a general utility to manipulate apple ] [ emulator images. if you 're thinking this could be useful , read on ! some secondary ( or tertiary , depending on what you are counting ) considerations are to give me a bit of experience using eclipse.org 's swt ( standard widget toolkit ) - which is an alternative windowing system to sun 's awt or swing . if you wish to participate or have ideas , please let us know ! please click here to visit the applecommander project page . please click here to download the latest stable release . please click here to download the current release candidate . capabilities as stated above , applecommander is intended to become a general utility for disk images. but , where is it now ? what are the current capabilities ? applecommander is currently able to read and display information about disk images , export files of various types , create disk images , import files into disk images , and has a rudimentary compiler. as of 1.3.5 , applecommander incorporates support for cc65 and an improved command-line and even an ant interface . disk image organizations currently supported : compressed images ( * .gz ) ; 140k dos-ordered images ( * .do , * .dsk ) ; 140k prodos-ordered images ( * .po ) ; 140k nibble ( dos ordered ) images ( * .nib ) ; 800k prodos-ordered images ( * .2mg , * .2img ) ; 32mb applepc hard disk images ( * .hdv ) . disk formats currently supported ( ie , operating systems ) : dos 3.3 ( 140k formats only ) ; unidos , ozdos ( 800k formats only ) ; prodos ; apple pascal ( 140k and 800k formats ) ; ssi 's rdos ( 140k formats only ) ; cp/m ( probably only 140k formats ) . file export filters : raw disk data ( dumps blocks or sectors without regard to file length or operating system storage ) ; binary file ( dumps file without any conversion ) ; hex dump ; ascii file filter ; formatted assembly output ; pascal " .text " files ; applesoft basic file filter ( file is de-tokenized and written out as a text file ) ; integer basic file filter ( ditto ) ; graphic image file filter ( supports black and white or color hires images as well as black and white or color double hires images as well as standard super hires , and 3200 color super hires ) ; appleworks word processor ( awp ) file filter ( converts to text , poor html , or rich-text format ( rtf ) ) ; appleworks database ( adb ) file filter ( converts to csv ) ; appleworks spread sheet ( asp ) file filter ( converts to csv ) . compile capabilities ( beta ) : applesoft basic viewer capabilities : basic programs ( applesoft and integer basic ) ; applesoft basic is colored graphics images ( same as supported by the graphics export function ) appleworks ( database , spreadsheet , word processor ) text files ( plain text , assembly source files , pascal text files ) hex dump of all the above " raw " format of all of the above ; this includes all data as read from disk including length and starting address as well as full sectors/blocks issues known issues with applecommander : if a disk is mostly in a known format , but has bad data and what-not , applecommander may crash. technically , the worst culprit is a retrieving a non-existant block or track/sector . various interface improvements . requirement of a java jvm as well as swt for the interface . the win32 ( compiled ) version of applecommander does n't interpret graphic image colors correctly - however the java jar version does . please visit the tracker page for an up-to-date list of issues , submit a new issue , or submit a feature request . future there is a general list of todo items which is managed as part of the cvs archive. click here to see the current todo list . does the future include you ? anyone is welcome to suggest or contribute ! requirements applecommander is written in java and uses a non-standard java library , swt. fortunately , none of these will cost anything but download time : java - if you need to install java , go to the sun java site for j2se and download the latest version ( 1.4.2 as of june 2004 ) and install it. i develop with 1.4.2_04 , and have tested with 1.3.1 , so these should work along with any future releases . swt - as far as swt is concerned , i have created a windows archive ( 1mb ) of these files which you can unzip into the same directory as the applecommander jar file. the mac bundle includes the swt files . for the latest release of swt , visit the eclipse site ! because of the swt difficulties , i hope to continue compiling the application. these will be tagged with a win32 in the filename . download note : please read the requirements and download java and the swt code , if required first ! once you have installed java and copied swt into the future applecommander directory , download a copy of applecommander from the download section of the sourceforge site . this software is distributed under the gpl . to start applecommander , just double-click on the applecommander jar file ! if you 've downloaded the win32 version , double-click on the exe file . one mac , double-click applecommander.app ; recent libraries are included . developer documentation there is currently minimal documentation available for others interested in the development , structure , or code of applecommander. the source is , of course , available on sourceforge via cvs . however , extra documentation is fairly sparse at this time . for your web-browsing pleasure , the applecommander java documentation has been uploaded , and i will try to keep it up-to-date. ( if not , the code is documented , and you can generate it yourself. ) additionally , eclipseuml has been used to generate the uml diagrams which have been drawn by hand. these uml diagrams do n't cover all of applecommander , but they do give the general structure used by the " storage " package - that is , the domain in which applecommander specializes . historical version date description 1.3.5 01-jun-2008 added support for cc65 and improved support for apple ucsd pascal 800k images and mac os x. the summary is available here . 1.3.4 31-mar-2007 resolved os x issues ( jmatthews ) ; pascal 800k format now supported ( jmatthews ) ; pascal images are now writeable ( jmatthews ) . the summary is available here . 1.3.3 18-jun-2004 primarily restructuring , but added a two new file viewers ( apple pascal .text files and assembly source code ) . the summary is available here . 1.3.2 05-jun-2004 added nibble image support , cp/m support , as well as shr 3200-color graphics. the summary is available here . 1.3.1 12-dec-2003 incorporated john matthews ' command-line version of applecommander ( " ac " ) ; added file viewing capabilities. the posting is here . 1.3.0 04-dec-2003 very early release of an applesoft basic compiler ; john matthews ' bug fixes have been incorporated ; chris sebrell 's fixes have been incorporated . 1.2.3 13-apr-2003 work towards windows executable ( now available ! ) ; posting is here . 1.2.2 15-mar-2003 bug fixes ( primarily prodos updates ) ; posting is here . 1.2.1 1-mar-2003 bug fixes ; added asp and adb exports ; posting is here . 1.2.0 11-feb-2003 the fourth posting for version 1.2.0 announcing import abilities is here . 1.1.1 30-nov-2002 the third posting for version 1.1.1 announcing the gpl release of applecommander is here . 1.1 12-nov-2002 the second posting for version 1.1 is located here . 1.0 28-oct-2002 the first news group posting is here announcing version 1.0 . contact feel free to drop some email - i do n't expect traffic to be very large . however , because of the ever-present threat of spam , i wo n't create an email link either ( sorry , you got ta type it ! ) : robgreene at users dot sourceforge dot net matthewsj at users dot sourceforge dot net last updated 30-jul-2012
