e-maculation wiki e-maculation : all about macintosh emulation trace : • e-maculation : all about macintosh emulation about news forum emulators sheepshaver basilisk ii mini vmac pearpc other how-to setup sheepshaver for windows setup sheepshaver for macos x setup sheepshaver for linux setup basilisk ii for macos x setup basilisk ii for windows setup basilisk142 for windows setup basilisk ii for linux setup pearpc for windows setup mini vmac for windows more guides extras interviews compiling_&_tidbits macintosh rom images compatibility notes 68k macintosh software mini vmac games all downloads contact cachefile /home/emaculation/emaculation.com/data/cache/5/50e912ec50af273a704af56795d86064.xhtml used wikipage start e-maculation : all about macintosh emulation ( site updated april 15 , 2014 ) welcome e-maculation is dedicated to emulation of the classic macintosh computer in mac os x , windows and linux. this is possible through the use of emulators such as sheepshaver , basilisk ii , mini vmac and pearpc . how-to we host a number of setup guides. to emulate a g4 powerpc-processor based macintosh and install up to mac os 9.0.4 , read about setting up sheepshaver for windows , mac os x , or linux . to read about emulating an older apple machine with an 68xxx processor , try our guides to setting up basilisk ii . to emulate an even older macintosh ( a mac plus running system 6 ) , check out our guide to setting up mini vmac . we also host a number of guides dealing with specific issues . latest news updates to the retroweb ! read about that story , and all of the latest macintosh emulation news , in the news section . support forum we host a busy support forum . register for the forum over here . e-maculation wiki there is no open registration with this wiki. only administrators and assigned editors can post or edit articles . wikipage stop mac_emulation.txt · last modified : 2014/04/20 09 : 59 by clockwise except where otherwise noted , content on this wiki is licensed under the following license : cc attribution-noncommercial-share alike 3.0 unported
