header includes for articles logo image artelino company name as png image and caption japanese prints links to sign in , register etc . sign in | register | contact | new user ? pci certificate seal event announcement box auction japanese prints - 1228 - ending in 1 hour , 24 minutes and 0 seconds home auctions buy direct sell service about us archive edutainment edutainment index articles on art articles in german artists art glossary asian art news editorial ukiyo-e dealers ukiyo-e web sites printmakers ukiyo-e signatures videos in english videos in german search modern art movements by edgar degas modern art movements impressionism this is a popular introduction to the major art movements starting with impressionism and ending with op art. for copyright reasons we can not display any images of art works by artists like pablo picasso or salvador dali on this web page. instead we show you partly images of different contemporary chinese painters and printmakers whose works you can buy from us . with the beginning of the industrial revolution in the second half of the 19th century , new art styles and movements appeared and disappeared at an increasingly fast pace - thus reflecting the growing rate of changes in our society. here is a short overview on important modern art movements from impressionism to op art. some of the images on this page are from wikimedia commons repository under the gnu free documentation license. . first publication : may 2001 latest update : june 2013 timeline of modern art movements timeline of modern art movements found on youtube. credit and thanks to alzaabifamily for sharing this with us. for a better reading quality you can enlarge the video to full screen. impressionism modern art movements by claude monet impressionism the history of modern art started with impressionism . it all began in paris as a reaction to a very formal and rigid style of painting - done inside studios and set by traditional institutions like the academie des beaux-arts in paris. the exhibition of edouard manet 's famous painting , dejeuner sur l'herbe , in 1863 in the salon des refuses ( organized by those painter who were rejected by the academie des beaux-arts ) , caused a scandal. it can be considered as the beginning of impressionism . the impressionist painters preferred to paint outside and studied the effect of light on objects. their preferred subjects were landscapes and scenes from daily life. the best known names in impressionist painting are edouard manet , claude monet , edgar degas , camille pissarro and pierre auguste renoir in france and alfred sisley in england. fauvism the word fauvism comes from the french word fauve , which means " wild animals " . and indeed - this new modern art style was a bit wild - with strong and vivid colors. paul gauguin and the dutch painter vincent van gogh had carried impressionism to its limits by using expressive colors. fauvism went one step further in using simplified designs in combination with an " orgy of pure colors " as it was characterized by their critics. the first exhibition by fauvist artists took place in 1905. the best-known fauve artists are henri matisse , andre derain , maurice de vlaminch , kees van dongen and raoul dufy. expressionism by franz marc modern art movement expressionism expressionism , in simplified terms , was some kind of a german modern art version of fauvism. the expressionist movement was organized in two groups of german painters. one was called die bruecke , literally meaning the bridge . the group was located in dresden with the artists ernst ludwig kirchner , erich heckel , emil nolde , max pechstein , otto mueller and karl schmidt-rottluff. after world war i , this group was followed by another group of artists , calling themselves dresdner sezession . the second expressionist gathering of artists was centered in munich. the group is known by the name der blaue reiter , meaning the blue rider . the famous names are franz marc , august macke , gabriele m ü nter , wassily kandinsky , paul klee and alexei yavlensky. art nouveau movement art nouveau is french and means new art. it is characterized by its highly decorative style and by the dedication to natural forms. art nouveau was popular from about 1880 to 1910 and was an international art movement. the germans called it jugendstil , the italians liberty , the austrians sezessionsstil and the spanish arte joven . art nouveau was not restricted to painting or printmaking. it covered all forms of art - architecture , furniture , jewelry , glass and illustration . fine examples of art nouveau are the subway entrances in paris , the glass works of emille galle and louis comfort tiffany in the us or the posters by alphonse mucha . a famous painter is gustav klimt . art nouveau did not survive world war i , maybe because of the high prices for art nouveau objects. with the philosophical roots in high quality handicraft , art nouveau was nothing for mass production. art deco movement fashion festival by zheng jianhui born 1983 woodblock panels art deco was primarily a design style , popular in the 1920s and 1930s. in simplified terms , the art deco movement can be considered as the follow-up style on art nouveau - more simplified and closer to mass production. the art deco movement was dominant in fashion , furniture , jewelry , textiles , architecture , commercial printmaking and interior decoration. the best known name is rene lalique , a jeweler and glassmaker. the chrysler building in new york ( 1930 ) is an example of art deco style in architecture. cubism cubism , another modern art movement , was primarily restricted to painting and sculpture. nevertheless it had a major influence on the development of modern art. cubism was initiated by the spaniard pablo picasso and the frenchman georges braques in paris before world war i. paul cezanne , usually categorized as a post-impressionist , can be considered as their predecessor. cubism had strong roots in african tribal art. in cubism , geometrical forms and fragmentations are favored. everything is reduced to cubes and other geometrical forms. often several aspects of one subject are shown simultaneously. as famous artists besides pablo picasso and georges braques , robert delaunay , marcel duchamp , juan gris and lyonel feininger are to be mentioned. cubism paved the way for abstract art . surrealism yellow snake by liu zhi born 1975 oil on canvas surrealism is another of the many modern art movements in the 20th century. its philosophical " father " was andre breton , a french poet and writer who published the surrealist guidelines , called manifesto in 1924 in paris. surrealism emphasizes the unconscious , the importance of dreams , the psychological aspect in arts. surrealism became an important movement in the fine arts , literature and in films ( by the spaniard bunuel for instance ) . for the fine arts , the best-known names are salvador dali , the italian giorgio de chirico with his strange and eerie town views , marcel duchamp , max ernst , joan miro , yves tanguy , rene margritte and the russian marc chagall . abstract art russian-born painter wassily kandinsky is said to be the father of abstract art . if you should ever come to munich , you should not miss a visit of the lenbachhaus museum. it has many wassily kandinsky paintings on display and you can recognize very well how his style developed by and by to semi-abstract and then to abstract painting. piet mondrian , a dutch painter , is another dominant character in establishing abstract painting. mondrian had experienced cubism in paris. during world war ii many leading artists emigrated to the us , for instance max ernst , marcel duchamp and marc chagall . thus new york became the new center for modern art and abstract painting. pop art movement beautiful and charming by poon shu born 1987 painting the word pop art is an abbreviation for popular art. the name says it all. the pop art movement wanted to bring art back into the daily life of people. it was a reaction against abstract painting , which pop artists considered as too sophisticated and elite. pop artists ' favorite images were objects from everyday 's life like soup cans for andy warhol or comics for roy lichtenstein. typical for the attitude of the pop art movement was andy warhol 's use of serigraphy , a photo-realistic , mass-production technique of printmaking. pop art intruded into the media and advertising. the differences between the fine arts and commercial arts were voluntarily torn down. an excellent example are the designs of music album covers in the sixties. the undoubted cult figure of pop art was andy warhol ( 1928-1987 ) . other great names are jaspar johns , robert rauschenberg , david hockney , claes oldenburg , roy lichtenstein , georg segal , wayne or james rosenquist. the pop art movement was mainly an american and british art movement. op art movement after pop art it was op art , a short form for optical art . op art expressed itself with reduced geometrical forms - sometimes in black and white contrasts and sometimes with very brilliant colors. the most prominent artist is hungarian-born vasarely. in the seventies op art even made its way into fashion design. but op art never succeeded in becoming a really popular mass-movement of modern art like pop art. other pages related to modern art movement edgar degas 1834-1917 japanese prints in the 20th century. junichiro sekino 1914-1988 kiyoshi saito - 1907-1997 modern chinese prints ota masamitsu - 1892-1975 prints by hao ping - born 1952 shin hanga sosaku hanga artists wang rengfeng wang shimin - born 1958 zhang botao - resume author : dieter wanczura .. more about dieter wanczura art history - external reference art history resources by chris witcombe trailer includes for articles the images on this web site are the property of the artist ( s ) and or the artelino gmbh and/or a third company or institution. reproduction , public display and any commercial use of these images , in whole or in part , require the expressed written consent of the artist ( s ) and/or the artelino gmbh . questions ? become a regular client of artelino auctions you are visiting what is to my knowledge the largest website for contents around japanese prints. more than 50,000 persons visit us every month. that 's nice. but qualified contents needs your regular purchases in our auctions. if you appreciate our free services , please bid and buy in our auctions of japanese prints . - dieter wanczura visit our auction calendar for japanese prints thank you ! - dieter and yorie contact sitemap conditions imprint e-mail copyright © 2001-2014 artelino gmbh. all rights reserved. google author tag google remember my client no. no client group. current local time : thursday , august 14 , 2014 , 6 : 36 : 00 pm central european time place this tag after the last plusone tag google analytics
