begin istats 20100118 ( ux-cmc 1.1009.3 ) end istats ( ux-cmc ) pre mast bbcdotcom leaderboard template : client-side journalismvariant : false ipisadvertisecombined : true adsenabled : true flagpole : on showadaboveblq : true blqleaderboardad : true british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search accessibility help start programmes content container shell history ancient history british history world wars historic figures family history hands on history history for kids on this day historic figures selected biographies of historic figures featured on bbc.co.uk/history . search by surname napoleon bonaparte which country was napoleon emperor of ? florence nightingale which war did florence make her name in ? martin luther king which year did martin win the nobel prize ? william shakespeare when was his first folio published ? a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z start right hand content area « ; history homepage world war one centenary find out more about how the bbc is covering the world war one centenary , and see the latest programmes and online content war poetry has dulce et decorum est affected our view of ww1 ? end right hand content search term : bbc navigation news sport weather capital tv radio more … cbbc cbeebies comedy food history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites bbc links mobile site terms of use about the bbc advertise with us privacy accessibility help ad choices cookies contact the bbc parental guidance bbc © 2014 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites. read more. this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets ( css ) enabled. while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience. please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets ( css ) if you are able to do so . bbcdotcom analytics template : client-side journalismvariant : false ipisadvertisecombined : true adsenabled : true flagpole : on start audiencescience end audiencescience start sitecatalyst end sitecatalyst start comscore tag end comscore tag begin sitestat4 code end sitestat4 code start nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 end nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 start nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 end nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 start nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 end nielsen online sitecensus v6.0 effective measure bbccom-1195 end effective measure agof bbccom-1271 end agof bbcdotcom body last progs scripts livestats livestats heatmap
