abstract expressionism however great a disaster world war ii was , it did at least mean that artists such as piet mondrian and max ernst , in leaving europe for the safety of the usa , greatly extended their artistic influence. it is impossible to estimate how much they affected american art , but the fact remains that in the 1940s and '50s , for the first time , american artists became internationally important with their new vision and new artistic vocabulary , known as abstract expressionism . the first public exhibitions of work by the ` ` new york school' ' of artists-- who were to become known as abstract expressionists-- were held in the mid '40s. like many other modern movements , abstract expressionism does not describe any one particular style , but rather a general attitude ; not all the work was abstract , nor was it all expressive. what these artists did have in common were morally loaded themes , often heavyweight and tragic , on a grand scale. in contrast to the themes of social realism and regional life that characterized american art of previous decades , these artists valued , above all , individuality and spontaneous improvisation. they felt ill at ease with conventional subjects and styles , neither of which could adequately convey their new vision. in fact , style as such almost ceased to exist with the abstract expressionists , and they drew their inspiration from all directions . the painters who came to be called ` ` abstract expressionists' ' shared a similarity of outlook rather than of style-- an outlook characterized by a spirit of revolt and a belief in freedom of expression. the main exponents of the genre were pollock , de kooning , and rothko , but other artists included guston , kline , newman and still. the term abstract expressionism was first used by robert coates in the march issue of the new yorker in 1936. the movement was hugely successful , partly due to the efforts of the critics harold rosenberg and clement greenberg who also originated the terms action painting and american style . jackson pollock : breaking the ice to action painting © 14 oct 2002 , nicolas pioch - top - up - info thanks to the bmw foundation , the webmuseum mirrors , partners and contributors for their support .
