resources in art history for graduate students a newsletter of fellowships and other opportunities for art history graduate students see the index to find these opportunities . this continuously updated online newsletter lists grants , fellowships , internships and study abroad opportunities for graduate students in art history and closely related areas such as humanities and visual art studies. " resources " also carries the largest number of listings of art history conference and publication opportunities listed online of particular interest to graduate students but usually open to all . " in 1960 , 75 percent of college instructors were full-time tenured or tenure-track professors ; today only 27 percent are. " new york times education life supplement p. 6 january 03 , 2010. more cheery news here supposedly michelangelo 's favorite view of florence. from fiesole . humanities majors learn more confirmed : we 're smarter and better educated than the business majors . these descriptions have been cheerfully cribbed from the official announcements. when available , links have been made to the program site. if there is no link , write or call the program for full information. please note that you are welcome to link to this site and to make printouts of this newsletter. please include a reference to this author and site. so you want to post something on resources no charge. just write to me ( see address below ) . please keep the announcement short . no attachments. no pdfs . please note that i do not do research or make valuations. no ads ever. no framejacking--i 'll find out and tell your mother here is some inspirational music from marco masini just the thing to get you going in the morning ! adrienne deangelis , editor acd @ efn.org index remember that wise old art history prof. : " you might as well apply for everything because who gets what is totally arbitrary... " pre-doctoral grants and fellowships pre-doctoral grants and fellowships especially for women support for research abroad : full year , summer , and shorter programs summer language study internships with museums , galleries , etc . also with links to several online collections . publications for reading/submissions special subject m.a. programs in art history outside the u.s . online programs in art history-like subjects art history symposia of interest to graduate students now cunningly divided into separate collections : asian topics ; american art and culture ; architecture and urban design ; classics and archaeology ; italy ; islamic art ; medieval topics ; renaissance and baroque topics ; eighteenth-century art and culture ; nineteenth-century art and culture film ; women , men , and gender ; popular culture ; all other topics : u.s.a. and canada ; all other topics : british isles , anzac , europe , and everywhere else related resources in art history and humanities for graduate students links to caa , che , h-net , and more. or , just visit the fun sites . end of this page tim buckley pre-doctoral grants and fellowships horatio alger fellowship for the study of american popular culture nice web site , but dates are confused : contact them for clarification. annual ( ? ) " available to scholars who will be using materials from the libraries ' major holdings in american popular culture. these holdings include the albert johannsen collection of more than 50,000 dime novels , and the nation 's preeminent collections related to horatio alger , jr. , and edward stratemeyer. many other authors are represented. topics which could draw on the collections strengths might include the plight of urban children , image of the american west in popular literature , widespread use of pseudonyms , and stereotypical portrayals. preference will be given to applicants who signify an interest in conducting research related to horatio alger , jr... " for more details , see web site. american antiquarian society research fellowships and grants. " the short-term grants are available for scholars holding the ph.d. and for doctoral candidates engaged in dissertation research , and offer a stipend of $ 1850/month. special short-term fellowships support scholars working in the history of the book in american culture , in the american eighteenth century , and in american literary studies , as well as in studies that draw upon the society 's preeminent collections of graphic arts , newspapers , and periodicals. accommodations are available for visiting fellows in housing owned by aas. the deadline for applications is january 15 , 2011 . " please see the web site for details on this and other opportunities. [ american art ] amon carter davidson family fellowship " ...provides support for scholars working toward the ph.d. or at the postdoctoral level to research topics in the history of american art that relate to objects in the museum 's permanent collections... the next application deadline is march 15 , 2011 , for a fellowship period that should occur between may 1 and september 30 , 2011. " see details at the link above. [ american art ] henry luce foundation/acls dissertation fellowship program in american art for phd dissertation work in the art history of the united states in any period. " ...designated for graduate students in any stage of ph.d. dissertation research or writing. ten fellowships are available for a non-renewable , one-year term...completed applications must be submitted through the acls online fellowship application system ( ofa.acls.org ) . please see the web site for more information. [ american art ] philadelphia museum of art " the center for american art and the barra foundation offer three graduate fellowships each year in the department of american art. " one year-long fellowship and two summer fellowships. please see the web site for more information. [ american art ] smithsonian american art museum a variety of opportunities for senior ( b.a. ) and graduate students. " the standard term of residency is twelve months , but shorter terms will be considered ; stipends are prorated for periods of less than twelve months. deadline : january 15 , 2011 . ( seems to be the same date each year. ) contact : fellowship office , saam , ( 202 ) 633-8353 , ( saamfellowships @ si.edu ) . for information and an application , visit www.americanart.si.edu/fellowships. terra foundation for american art publication grants " through its publication grants , the terra foundation for american art provides support for publication projects on historical american art ( circa 1500 to 1980 ) that make a significant contribution to scholarship and have an international dimension. " international dimensions " vary by project , but include translations of important texts on american art ; publications that are written by non-u.s. scholars or that have a significant number of non-u.s. contributors ; and publications with a focused thesis exploring american art in an international context. the grants are designed to advance and internationalize scholarship on american art and provide individuals outside the united states with greater access to resources in the field. applications will be judged competitively on an annual basis. " please see their web site for details. [ american art ] terra foundation for american art travel grants " the terra foundation for american art is offering , in partnership with the courtauld institute of art , london , the institut national de l'histoire de l'art , paris , and the john f. kennedy institut fuer nordamerikastudien , freie universitaet , berlin , six travel grants for researchers whose research project concerns american art or transatlantic artistic relations. foreign nationals of all european countries can apply for these grants according to their level of study. " see the web site for more information. [ american history and culture ] jacob m. price research fellowships [ michigan ] " the jacob m. price visiting research fellowships are offered to facilitate research at the william l. clements library. several grants of $ 1000 are available for younger scholars -- graduate students and junior faculty -- whose work would benefit from use of the library 's resources...the clements library , located on the central campus of the university of michigan , ann arbor , specializes in american history and culture from the sixteenth through the nineteenth centuries. " not offered 2010. [ american history and culture ] winterthur research fellowship " winterthur , a public museum , library , and garden supporting the advanced study of american art , culture , and history , announces its research fellowship program for 2011-12. winterthur offers an extensive program of short- and long-term fellowships open to academic , independent , and museum scholars , including advanced graduate students , to support research in material culture , architecture , decorative arts , design , consumer culture , garden and landscape studies , shaker studies , travel and tourism , the atlantic world , childhood , literary culture , and many other areas of social and cultural history. fellowships include 4-9 month neh fellowships , 1-2 semester dissertation fellowships , and 1-2 month short-term fellowships. " please see thr web site for details/ [ american studies ] gilder lehrman institute of american history short-term fellowships are available for doctoral candidates who have completed exams and begun dissertation reading and writing. support for research projects at the new-york historical society , the columbia university rare book and manuscript library , the new york public library humanities and social sciences library , and the schomburg center for research in black culture. for more information on each archive and application deadlines and requirements , please see the web site. [ american studies ] library company of philadelphia and historical society of pennsylvania fellowships in colonial and u.s. history and culture several fellowships. see the web site for more information. [ american studies ] library company 2010 fellowships in early american economy and society fellowships offered range from one to nine months. " the deadline for receipt of all electronic applications and letters was march 1 , 2010. " see the web site for more information. mcneil center for early american studies fellowships " fellowships and research opportunities " --a list of graduate-level support program. the web site has n't been updated in a while , so be sure to write and confirm that the award is still available ( which you should do for all of the opportunities listed on these pages. [ american studies ] zuckerman prize in american studies " the zuckerman prize offers $ 2000 for the best dissertation connecting american history ( in any period ) with literature and/or art. only unpublished dissertations formally accepted between 1 january 1 2009 and 31 december 2010 qualify for the prize. submissions will be evaluated for the seriousness and originality with which the dissertation engages relationships among history , art and/or literature , the significance of the treatment to scholarship in the field , and the overall quality of the writing. applicants should submit one double-sided copy of the entire dissertation ( additional copies will be requested from finalists ) along with the cover sheet ( http : //www.mceas.org/zuckerman-cover-sheet.pdf ) , and should request a confidential letter from the dissertation director commenting on the intellectual significance of the work , to be mailed separately or included in an envelope with the supervisor 's signature across the seal. applications must be postmarked by 1 february 2011 and submitted to : the zuckerman prize mcneil center for early american studies university of pennsylvania 3355 woodland walk philadelphia , pa 19104-4531 questions may be directed to mceas @ ccat.sas.upenn.edu american association for netherlandic [ sic ] research grants in the past the association has offered a $ 1000 grant in support of research ( such as dissertation or archival research ) in the netherlands or belgium on any subject within netherlandic studies. to obtain further information or to submit an application , write to : dr. jenneke oosterhoff , president , aans department of german , scandinavian , and dutch 205 folwell hall , university of minnesota minneapolis mn usa 55455. e-mail : ooste003 @ umn.edu tel. : 612-625-0738. american geographical society library fellowships " the american geographical society library , university of wisconsin-milwaukee libraries , welcomes applications for two short-term fellowship programs [ for advanced graduate students and others ] . see the web site for more information. [ american modernists--preservation of ] society for the preservation of american modernists " research and teaching grants from the society for the preservation of american modernists ( spam ) . through its publication grants , spam supports articles or books by independent scholars , curators , writers , students , and other professionals concerning the artistic contributions of the american modernists , or the history of public and private support for the arts in the u.s. spam also funds course development by educators at the college level in the history of public and private support for the arts in the u.s. " seem now to be available only to post-docs , but hey , with a name like spam they 've at least got a sense of humor , so why not write and see if they 'll pass some cash your way ? american numismatic society they offer several types of fellowships of interest to graduate students ; for details see ( http : //numismatics.org/about/study.html ) . american philosophical society in philadelphia " ...offers short-term fellowships with stipend for conducting in-residence research in its collections. fellowships are open to : u.s. citizens and foreign nationals who are holders of the ph.d. or equivalent , ph.d. candidates who have passed their preliminary examinations , and independent scholars... applications are due no later than 1 march 2009 ( receipt deadline ) ...see website for full information and instructions. " american printing history association fellowship " the american printing history association ( apha ) is pleased to announce a fellowship award for the study of printing history. for 2009 , an award of up to $ 2,000 is available for research in any area of the history of printing in any form , including all the arts and technologies relevant to printing , the book arts , and letter forms. applications are especially welcome from those working in the area of american printing history , but the subject of research has no geographical or chronological limitations , and may be national or regional in scope , biographical , analytical , technical , or bibliographical in nature. study related to the history of printing with a recognized printer or book artist may also be supported. the fellowship can be used to pay for travel , living , and other expenses. " see web site for full information and instructions. [ archives ] friends of the alabama archives 2009 student fellowships check to see what they are offering now. for additional information , contact steve murray at ( 334 ) 353-4692 or ( steve.murray @ archives.alabama.gov ) . [ archives ] friends of the longfellow house fellowships cambridge , ma. " offers two $ 1200 fellowships to encourage scholars to use the remarkable archives of the longfellow national historic site in cambridge , ma...applications seem to be due in april. art history ph.d fellowship at southern methodist university " the department of art history at southern methodist university , dallas announces opportunities for students in our new doctoral program in art history ; accepting applications this fall/winter 2010-11. called rasc/a ń rhetorics of art , space , and culture ń our innovative , multidisciplinary ph.d. program prepares students for academic and museum careers in several areas of specialization , both european and latin american...we offer generous funding : a fellowship package of five years of tuition and health benefits plus a stipend of $ 24,000. students also receive support for off-campus and international research and travel. in addition , the department conducts annual site-specific graduate seminars that take students off-campus for about two weeks ( venice in 2009/10 , mexico city in 2010/11 ) ...for admission requirements and deadlines please contact hoselton @ smu.edu. " please see the web site for details. [ if i did n't have the ph.d already i would apply for this ! ! ] " art in translation " translation prize " art in translation student prize : ł 250. the getty-funded journal " art in translation " ( ait ) publishes the best writing from around the world on the visual arts , architecture , and design in english translation. to expand its advisory network , to locate texts that lie outside the western canon , and to engage young scholars in our project , ait is offering an annual student prize of ł 250 for the best recommendation of a text worthy of translation and publication. the competition is open to registered university students of art history or related disciplines. closing date is 30 september 2011 . for information , please see the website [ link above ] association of art historians ( uk ) jobs and fellowships basically for brits only ; an updated list of often part-time opportunities a universities and galleries throughout gb. athenaeum of philadelphia see also the announcement on the internships page bibliographical society of america they seem to offer a number of awards ; check the web site to see if any relate to your project. boston athenaeum reseach fellowships " the library of the boston athenaeum is pleased to offer up to seven short-term fellowships for 2008-2009. " please see the web site for more information. brandeis university : mortimer hays-brandeis traveling fellowship " ...fellowship provides support to students in the visual and fine arts , including art history , conservation , studio art and photography for travel and living expenses outside the continental united states , alaska and hawaii in accordance with a program of study or other activities approved by the fellowship selection committee. " annual , so it seems : application deadline of january 31 . back to the index canadian studies grants this is a page from the american political science association ( ! ! ) with notes on some opportunities for candians or non-canadians wishing to study in canada. [ canada ] leonard e. boyle dissertation prize for medieval studies " awarded to a deserving doctoral thesis in any field of medieval studies completed at a canadian university or by a canadian citizen at a university abroad. " see the web site for more information. cartography the harley fellowships this is a website put together by tony campbell , map librarian , british library. it describes several " fellowships , prizes and awards " for art historians with an interest in maps. [ cartography ] ristow prize in the history of cartography " students of the history of cartography are invited to submit academic papers for the 2011 ristow prize competition. undergraduate , graduate and first-year postdoctoral students of any nationality are eligible. papers must be in english , not exceeding 7500 words , and should be submitted to evelyn edson , ristow prize chair , 268 springtree lane , scottsville , va 24590. the winning essay will receive a cash prize of $ 1000 and publication in the portolan , the journal of the washington map society. papers must be postmarked not later than 1 june of each year . for more information and a list of previous winners , go to the website [ see link ] or contact edson at ( eedson @ pvcc.edu ) . allen whitehill clowes curatorial fellowship " the indianapolis museum of art is pleased to announce a nine-month curatorial fellowship. the fellowship supports scholarly research related to the clowes collection at the ima and provides curatorial training in the field of european painting and sculpture. the clowes fellow is fully integrated into the curatorial division of the museum and has duties comparable to those of an assistant curator , ranging from collection research and management to exhibition development and the preparation of interpretive materials and programs. to be eligible for the fellowship , the applicant must be enrolled in a graduate course of study leading to an advanced degree in the history of art or a related discipline , or be a recent degree recipient ( within the last two years ) . applicants must demonstrate scholarly excellence and promise , as well as a strong interest in the museum profession. u.s. citizenship is not required. the clowes fellow will receive a stipend of $ 18,000 and an educational travel allowance of $ 2,000. housing is provided in a scholar 's residence on the grounds of the museum. the nine-month fellowship period will begin september 1 , 2010. the appointment is renewable. applications should include a cover letter explaining your interest in the fellowship , a curriculum vitae , a concise statement describing your area of research and its relationship to the clowes collection and three letters of recommendation ( academic and professional ) . applications must be received by march 31 , 2011 . college art association professional development fellowships for artists and art historians " the program 's purpose is to support outstanding students from socially and economically diverse backgrounds who may have been underrepresented in their fields. " see the web site for more verbiage. costume society of america they offer several grants awards ; check the web site to see what 's available. council for european studies : fellowships and other resources a number of pre-dissertation fellowships supporting research and study in various countries , and a number of other valuable resources , including a list of other fellowships. council on library and information resources : mellon dissertation research fellowships " the council on library and information resources is offering fellowships funded by the andrew w. mellon foundation to support dissertation research in the humanities in original sources. . .the purposes of the program are to : help junior scholars in the humanities and related social-science fields gain skill and creativity in developing knowledge from original sources enable dissertation writers to do research wherever relevant sources may be rather than just where financial support is available encourage more extensive and innovative uses of original sources in libraries , archives , museums , historical societies , and related repositories in the u.s. and abroad , and provide insight from the viewpoint of doctoral candidates into how scholarly resources can be developed for access most helpfully in the future. for more information , see the web site under " fellowships. " cuban heritage collection fellowships " the cuban heritage collection here at the university of miami is launching a new cuban heritage collection fellowships program that is available to graduate students. the fellowships will provide assistance to graduate students who wish to use the research resources available at the cuban heritage collection at the university of miami. the goal of the chc fellowships is to engage emerging scholars with the materials available in the cuban heritage collection and thus contribute to the larger body of scholarship in cuban , hemispheric , and international studies. both exploratory pre-prospectus and dissertation research fellowships are available. the deadline for sending in application materials is february 19 , 2010 . rudolf theodoor kemper ( rkemper @ miami.edu ) davidson family fellowship [ ft. worth , texas ] " the amon carter museum 's davidson family fellowship provides support for scholars working toward the ph.d. or at the postdoctoral level to research topics in the history of american art that relate to objects in the museum 's permanent collections...each year a candidate is selected to either begin or continue work on a project that involves object-oriented research with the museum ő s outstanding collections of paintings , sculpture , works on paper , photographs , and illustrated books. candidates should have a demonstrated knowledge of the history of american art and culture in areas represented by the museum 's collections : paintings , sculpture , drawings , prints and illustrated books from 1835 to 1950 , and photography from its beginning to the present. proposals from qualified individuals in disciplines other than art history are also welcome...the davidson fellowship stipend is $ 5,000 for a minimum four-week period of full-time research at the amon carter museum... the next application deadline is march 15 , 2011 see the web site for full details. [ south , u.s. ] deep south regional humanities center in the past , they have offered fellowships and other types of support for graduate students. check to see what they may be offering now. [ dissertation support ] mellon fellowship program for dissertation research in the humanities in original sources " the council on library and information resources ( clir ) is pleased to offer fellowships generously funded by the andrew w. mellon foundation for dissertation research in the humanities in original sources...the program offers about fifteen competitively awarded fellowships a year. each provides a stipend of $ 2,000 per month for periods ranging from 9-12 months. each fellow will receive an additional $ 1,000 upon participating in a symposium on research in original sources and submitting a report acceptable to clir on the research experience. thus the maximum award will be $ 25,000...for further information on eligibility , requirements , and deadlines , please visit clir ő s website ( link above ) . [ posted 6 september 2010 ] [ dissertation support ] dissertation proposal development fellowship ( dpdf ) the " dpdf is a strategic fellowship program designed to help graduate students in the humanities and social sciences formulate doctoral dissertation proposals that are intellectually pointed , amenable to completion in a reasonable time frame , and competitive in fellowship competitions. " [ please see the web site for more information ] [ dissertation support ] international dissertation field research fellowship " ( idrf ) program supports distinguished graduate students in the humanities and social sciences conducting dissertation research outside the united states . seventy-five fellowships will be awarded in 2009 with funds provided by the andrew w. mellon foundation. deadline was november 5th , 2008 at 9 p.m. est ( ! ! ) apparently annual. duke university library research grant short-term funding for the use of the following collections at duke : " the sallie bingham center for women 's history and culture ; the john hope franklin collection of african and african-american documentation ; and the john w. hartman center for sales , advertising & marketing history. researchers may apply for grants from more than one center. the maximum award per applicant is $ 1,000. " please see the web site for more information. mary baker eddy research fellowships " applications now available for summer 2009 research fellowships at the mary baker eddy library in boston. open to academic scholars , independent researchers , and graduate students. the library 's newly public collections , centered on the papers of mary baker eddy and records documenting the history of christian science , offer scholars countless opportunities for original research. a select list of such resources includes : mary baker eddy 's scrapbooks and copybooks ; household account ledgers and receipts ; a fully-indexed file of newspapers clippings that date to the late nineteenth century ; eddy 's sermons and lectures ; an extensive historic photograph collection ; architectural records ; early histories of branch churches of christ , scientist ; and eddy 's voluminous correspondence and manuscript material , which offer opportunities for new analyses of her life and ideas...stipend provided. " filson historical society fellowships and internships : 2010 louisville , kentucky. " ...invites applications for fellowships to support research in the filson 's collections , and internships. applications must be received by february 15 , 2011 . detailed information about fellowships , internships , and application procedures can be found on the filson 's website. " french colonial studies ( u.s. ) " description : the center for french colonial studies was founded in 1983 in response to the renewed interest among historians , anthropologists , archaeologists , genealogists and preservationists in the history of the upper mississippi valley during the period of french predominance from 1673 to the early part of the 19th century. ( the center has in the past awarded each year one $ 1,000 grant to further french-language research related to the french presence in the upper mississippi valley ( illinois country ) . check to see if it is offered again. ) . the " links " page list other such organizations in the area. [ french studies ] the institute on napoleon and the french revolution ( florida state university ) " students in the institute are eligible for various fellowships and grants. " just fsu students ? frick collection : andrew w. mellon predoctoral curatorial fellowship 2011-2013 " the frick collection is pleased to announce the availability of a two-year predoctoral fellowship funded by the andrew w. mellon foundation for an outstanding doctoral candidate who wishes to pursue a curatorial career in an art museum. the fellowship will offer invaluable curatorial training and will provide the scholarly and financial resources required for completing the doctoral dissertation. it is best suited to a student working on a dissertation that pertains to one of the major strengths of the collection and library. the fellow will be expected to divide his or her time between the completion of the dissertation and activities in the curatorial department. applicants must be within the final two years of completing their dissertations. the mellon fellow will receive a stipend of $ 33,000 per year plus benefits and a travel allowance. the term will begin in september 2011 and conclude in august 2013. " the application deadline for the fellowship is january 20 , 2011 . check the web site for more information. frick collection : fellowship program for the center for the history of collecting in america " through its fellowships , the center seeks to encourage research on the history of collecting in america. at present , a number of short-term fellowships are available for graduate and pre-doctoral students... " check the web site for more information. marcus garvey foundation research fellowships at least two programs supporting " doctoral candidates doing primary research in the humanities and social sciences on topics related to africa and the african diaspora " or " looks to support doctoral candidates working on aspects of the history of the u.n.i.a. ( universal negro improvement association ) , the a.c.l. ( african communities league ) , and/or marcus garvey 's organizational activities , and who wish to use the recently deposited papers of thomas w. harvey , located at emory university 's manuscript , archives , and rare book library. " all applications & attachments must be received by march 17 , 2010 . see the web site for details. the getty grant program : predoctoral and postdoctoral fellowships the getty grant program appears to be incapable of designing a coherent site describing all of their programs. they also change their url frequently and neglect to post referrals. the link above might lead you to some interesting information. for more information , contact : the getty grant program , 1200 getty center drive , suite 800 , los angeles , ca 90049-1685 , usa. tel : ( 310 ) 440-7320 , graham foundation : carter manny award ( architecture ) " the carter manny award supports research for academic dissertations by promising scholars who are presently candidates for a doctoral degree , and whose dissertations focus on areas traditionally supported by the graham foundation ; that is , areas directly concerned with architecture , and with other arts that are immediately contributive to architecture. the carter manny award will be acknowledged by financialsupport of up to $ 15,000. the postmark deadline is march 15. for more information , see the web site. hagley library grants/fellowships look here for their programs. historians of eighteenth-century art and architecture : opportunities a list of many funding possibilities , many for graduate students. historians of eighteenth-century art and architecture : dora wiebenson graduate student prize " dora wiebenson graduate student prize hecaa ( historians of eighteenth-century art and architecture ) offers its wiebenson prize for the best graduate student paper presented during the previous calendar year at a scholarly conference or as a sponsored lecture. honorable mention is an option for papers of distinction that do not win the prize. winners must be hecaa members in good standing. deadline for submissions is february 15th . prize is awarded at the hecaa annual luncheon and business meeting at asecs. please contact anne schroder , hecaa president , ( anne.schroder @ duke.edu ) for further details. historic new orleans collection : dianne woest fellowship this is a fellowship " to support scholarly research and promote the history and culture of louisiana and the gulf south. now located at : ( http : //www.hnoc.org/programs/fellowship.php ) . houghton library visiting fellowships ( harvard ) from 1 - 12 months. please see the web site. henry e. huntington library , art collections , and botanical gardens offers several long- and short-term fellowships for predoctoral students to study british or american art. check the web site for full details. application deadline for all fellowships : december 15 . for more information , contact : the huntington library , art collections , and botanical gardens , 1151 oxford road , san marino , ca 91108 , 626-405-2100. institute for humane studies fellowships for undergraduate or graduate study " apply for scholarships worth up to $ 12,000 for undergraduate or graduate study in the united states or abroad. deadline : december 31 , 2008 . " check website for more information. back to the index [ iowa , midwest ] state historical society of iowa grant program " the state historical society of iowa ( shsi ) announces a grant program for the 2011/2012 academic year. shsi will award up to ten research stipends of $ 1,000 each to support original research and interpretive writing related to the history of iowa or iowa and the midwest...shsi invites applicants from a variety of backgrounds , including academic and public historians , graduate students , and independent researchers and writers...applications for the 2011/2012 awards must be postmarked by april 15 , 2011 . download application guidelines from web site ( http : //www.iowahistory.org/publications/the-annals-of-iowa/research-grants-for-authors.html ) research grants state historical society of iowa 402 iowa avenue iowa city ę ia ę 52240-1806 ph. 319-335-3931 fax 319-335-3935 the stonewall jackson house they have in the past offered graduate fellowships at the stonewall jackson house with opportunities for three months of residential work-study by qualified students who are currently enrolled in an m.a. or ph.d. program in the fields of american history , american studies , museum studies or material culture. you might try contacting them to see if these will be offered again. [ jewish studies ] berman foundation dissertation fellowships " ...call for submissions for the berman foundation dissertation fellowships in support of research in the social scientific study of the contemporary american jewish community. the application deadline is april 7 , 2011 . " please see the web site for details. kosciuszko foundation annual awards. look under " educational programs " for more information. samuel h. kress foundation fellowships vastly updated site lists two programs for predocs : kress travel grants and kress fellowships in art history at foreign institutions. for more information , check the web site or contact : kress foundation , 174 east 80th street , new york city , ny 10021. e-mail addresses with inquiry forms are on the web site. samuel h. kress foundation--fellowship with albright institute " $ 22,500-per-year kress institutional fellowships in the history of european art for a two-year research appointment...restricted to pre-doctoral candidates in the history of art and related disciplines ( such as archaeology , architecture , or classics ) . nominees must be u.s. citizens or individuals matriculated at an american university. dissertation research must focus on european , mediterranean , or classical art history from antiquity to the early 19th century. " apply directly to the kress foundation ( see above ) . samuel h. kress foundation fellowships in art history at foreign institutions " four $ 22,500-per-year kress institutional fellowships in the history of european art for a two-year research appointment in association with one of a list of foreign institutes... restrictions : restricted to pre-doctoral candidates in the history of art. nominees must be u.s. citizens or individuals matriculated at an american university. dissertation research must focus on european art before 1900. candidates must be nominated by their art history department. information : samuel h. kress foundation 174 east 80th street new york , ny 10021 lemelson center fellowships " the lemelson center fellows program supports projects that present creative approaches to the study of invention and innovation in american society. these include , but are not limited to , historical research and documentation projects resulting in publications , exhibitions , educational initiatives , and multimedia products...the center offers fellowships to scholars and professionals who are pre- or postdoctoral candidates or who have completed advanced professional training. fellowships are awarded for a maximum of ten weeks and carry a prorated stipend. for further information please contact maggie dennis at at dennism @ si.edu. " [ annual , deadline mid-january ] . library of congress fellowships generator just hit the right boxes and an impressive list of opportunities will be produced for you ! library research grants : princeton university annual. " each year , the friends of the princeton university library offer short-term library research grants to promote scholarly use of the research collections. " $ 3,500 , normally for one month. deadline for applications usually about january 15. see the web site for details. the malevich society grant competition " the malevich society is a private american not-for-profit organization , established by members of the family of the russian artist kazimir malevich , and dedicated to advancing knowledge about kazimir malevich and his work...phd candidates whose dissertation topics have been accepted by their institutions may apply for support after completing at least one year of dissertation research. " deadline is september 30--the same every year. see the web site for more information. carter manny award see graham foundation [ manuscript study ] heckman research stipends for research at hill museum & manuscript library , collegeville , minnesota 56321. duration : two weeks to six months. amounts : variable up to $ 2,000. deadlines : twice a year. april 15 for research conducted from july 1-december 31. november 15 for research conducted from january 1-june 30. application : submit a letter of application , c.v. , a one-page description of the research project including proposed length of stay , an explanation of how the library 's resources will enable you to advance your project , and a confidential letter of recommendation from your advisor , thesis director , mentor , or , in the case of postdoctoral candidates , a colleague who is a good judge of your work. send : all inquiries and materials to the committee on research , hill museum & manuscript library , box 7300 , saint john 's university , collegeville , mn 56321-7300 or directed to hmml @ csbsju.edu , or fax ( 320 ) 363-3222. the manuscript society : grant for research " the manuscript society is accepting applications for a grant to support graduate research requiring extensive work with original manuscripts. who is eligible : any student who has a bachelor 's degree and is enrolled in an advanced-degree program at an accredited college or university. preference will be given to doctoral students. applicants must demonstrate that their research involves considerable work with original manuscript material. deadline for applications : may 15 . total amount to be awarded and number of awards : $ 5,000 for one award. manuscripts , archives , and rare book library fellowships at emory university " the manuscript , archives , and rare book library ( marbl ) of emory university offers short-term fellowships to support research use of the library 's collections in modern literature and in african american history and culture. research fellows receive grants ranging from $ 500 to $ 2,000 to help defray expenses associated with traveling to and living in atlanta during the fellowship period. while proposals are welcome on a wide variety of research topics , proposals will be evaluated based on their extensive use of emory 's collections and on the basis of their unique contribution to scholarship. the length of the fellowship will depend on the applicant 's research proposal , but usually ranges from one to four weeks. proposals must be received by february 26 , 2010 . the fellowships may be used between april 2010 and march 2011. fellowship program manuscript , archives and rare book library robert w. woodruff library 540 asbury circle emory university atlanta , ga 30322-1006 fax : 404-727-0360 maryland historical society fellowships " between six and twelve lord baltimore fellowships will be awarded. these fellowships are non-stipendiary. fellows will be provided with office space , access to computers with internet connections , office supplies , staff-level access to the library and museum ( that is , access will be available for fellows from monday through saturday , not just during public hours ) , and a free staff parking permit. " please see the web site for more information. this appears to have died--ask if you are interested . massachusetts historical society short-term fellowships " the massachusetts historical society will offer approximately twenty short-term research fellowships in 2009-2010. these grants provide a stipend of $ 1500 for four weeks of research at the society sometime between july 1 , 2010 , and june 30 , 2011. short-term awards are open to independent scholars , advanced graduate students , and holders of the ph.d. or the equivalent , with candidates who live fifty or more miles from boston receiving preference. recipients must be u.s. citizens or foreign nationals holding the appropriate u.s. government documents. for more information visit ( www.masshist.org/fellowships/ ) , or contact jane becker , massachusetts historical society , 1154 boylston st. , boston , ma 02215 ( fellowships @ masshist.org ) or 617-646-0518. application deadline : 1 march 2010. " please see the web site for more information. annual. material texts fellowships at the library company ( philadelphia ) " a major new grant from the andrew w. mellon foundation will make possible the appointment of two early american literature and material texts fellows for 13-month terms beginning 1 july 2009. offered jointly by the mcneil center for early american studies at the university of pennsylvania and the library company of philadelphia , the fellowships will be awarded to scholars in the research and/or writing phase of dissertations in english , american literature , comparative literature , american studies , history , art history , or related fields whose work combines in innovative ways the study of texts-novels , poems , plays , newspapers , magazines , scribal publications , other genres not traditionally defined as " literary " -with the material circumstances of their production and dissemination... the postmark deadline for applications for all 2009-2010 dissertation fellowships is 1 march 2009 . for application instructions and further details , visit [ the web site ] . mcneil center for early american studies : university of pennsylvania " offers several pre-doctoral dissertation fellowships each year for a term of nine months , beginning 1 september. advanced graduate students from any phd-granting institution who are in the dissertation research or writing stage are eligible to compete for these fellowships , which are open to scholars in any discipline for projects focusing on north america and the caribbean before 1850. the postmark deadline for applications will be 1 march. " medieval academy of america fellowships , tuition grants , travel grants. includes a link to non-academy grants also. check the web site for more information. andrew w. mellon fellowships in humanistic studies is this dead ? no sign of it here. see also : the woodrow wilson national fellowship foundation , andrew w. mellon fellowships in humanistic studies , cn 5329 , princeton , nj 08543-0066. andrew w. mellon fellowship program at the knights of columbus vatican film library at saint louis university " research in the collections of the vatican film library by qualified scholars is supported by two fellowship programs. the vatican film library mellon fellowship is offered through the vatican film library for research of periods between two and eight weeks in length , though shorter periods of time can be accommodated. the neh research fellowship is offered through the center for medieval and renaissance studies at saint louis university for scholars resident during the fall or spring terms. this fellowship encompasses research conducted in both the vatican film library and in the rare book and manuscript collections of pius xii memorial library. these fellowships can not be held concurrently. " please see web site for information on study periods and deadlines. or contact : andrew w. mellon fellowship program , vatican film library , pius xii memorial library , saint louis university , 3650 lindell blvd , st. louis , mo 63108-3302. the metropolitan museum of art : art history fellowships about a dozen very different fellowships for study/research at the met or in other locations. check the web site for the full information. the metropolitan museum of art : conservation fellowships best to go to the web site for information. [ minority programs ] center for global understanding internship scholarships " the center for global understanding ( cfgu ) is a non-profit and non-advocacy organization designed to bring people together. we believe that the only way to bring people together is through educating everyone about different cultures , religions and their values. one of our main goals is to help cultivate future muslim american leaders through our washington d. c. internship program...25 scholarships are available to qualified students for the summer of 2011. " check the web site linked above for current information. [ minority programs ] five college abd fellowship program : minorities tenable at : amherst , hampshire , mount holyoke , smith , umass amherst. " the five college abd fellowship program provides a year in residence at one of the campuses for graduate students in the final phase of thee doctoral degree. the chief goal of the program is to promote diversity in the academy by enabling more scholars of underrepresented groups to embark on an academic career with their doctoral degree completed. by furnishing a stipend , housing and other benefits , the program allows fellows to focus on completing their dissertations. please see the web site for more information. [ minority programs ] marcus garvey memorial foundation awards are $ 500. for more information , please contact : marcus garvey foundation p.o. box 42379 philadelphia , pa 19101 [ minority programs ] center for global understanding internship scholarships " the center for global understanding ( cfgu ) is a non-profit and non-advocacy organization designed to bring people together. we believe that the only way to bring people together is through educating everyone about different cultures , religions and their values. one of our main goals is to help cultivate future muslim american leaders through our washington d. c. internship program...25 scholarships are available to qualified students for the summer of 2011. students must complete their application by january 31 , 2011 to be eligible for the cfgu scholarships. " [ minority programs ] carter g. woodson institute for afro-american and african studies , university of virginia " the carter g. woodson institute for african-american and african studies at the university of virginia invites scholars whose work focuses on africa and/or the african diaspora to apply for a two-year predoctoral research fellowship , beginning august 25 , 2009...applications are due monday , december 1 , 2011. seems to be annual. go the web site for more information. [ minority programs ] smithsonian latino studies fellowship program " this program offers awards to us latino/a predoctoral students and postdoctoral or senior scholars to pursue research related to latino history , art , and culture using smithsonian resources... deadline : january 15 , apprently each year. [ minority programs ] smithsonian minority awards program " the office of research training and services offers internships and visiting student awards to increase participation of u.s. minority groups who are underrepresented in smithsonian scholarly programs , in the disciplines of research conducted at the institution , and in the museum field... deadlines : february 1 ( for summer and fall ) ; october 1 ( for spring ) . [ modern art ] spam ( society for the preservation of american modernists ) publication grants " publication grants -- spam supports the authorship of articles or books by independent scholars , writers , students , and professionals in the following subject areas : the artistic contributions of the american modernists , and the history of public and private support for the arts in the united states. either of these areas may be explored in a successful application. " please see the web site for more information. [ modern art ] wolfsonian-fiu fellowship program " fellowships are intended to support full-time research , generally for a period of three to five weeks. the program is open to holders of master 's or doctoral degrees , ph.d. candidates , and to others who have a significant record of professional achievement in relevant fields. applicants are encouraged to discuss their project with the fellowship coordinator prior to submission to ensure the relevance of their proposals to the wolfsonian 's collection. for more information about the wolfsonian and its collection , visit the website [ above ] , call 305-535-2613 , or e-mail to research @ thewolf.fiu.edu. the application deadline is december 31 , for residency during the 2009-2011 academic years. henry moore institute research fellowships the henry moore institute in leeds , uk , pre-doctoral fellowships for 2010-2011. " research fellowships are intended for artists , scholars and curators , interested in working on historic and contemporary sculpture using the institute 's library , archive of sculptors ' papers and the collection ofleeds art gallery. up to 4 fellows will be given the opportunity to spend a month in leeds to develop their own research in a supportive and stimulating environment. both fellowships provide accommodation , travel expenses and a per diem. the institute offers the possibility of presenting finished research in published form , as a seminar , or as a small exhibition. full details are available on ( www.henry-moore.ac.uk ) ... ( check the web site to see what else is available currently ) . back to the index nantucket historical association : research fellowship they offer occasional fellowships. check the web site if you 're keen on spending some time in beautiful nantucket. national gallery of art predoctoral fellowship program several fellowships to support doctoral research. application for these fellowships may be made only through the chair of your graduate department of art history " and other appropriate departments " their web site offers full information. national gallery of art graduate curatorial internships " provide in-depth training for advanced phd students and recent phd recipients interested in gaining curatorial experience in a museum setting. interns work with curators on permanent collection and exhibition projects and attend a weekly museum seminar that introduces the staff , departments , programs , and functions of the gallery. the duties and responsibilities are comparable to those of curatorial assistants...nterns receive a stipend of $ 34,000 and are subject to all applicable taxes. " see the web site for more information. [ native american studies ] american indian studies program at michigan state " pre-doctoral dissertation fellowship award provides office space , access to michigan state university 's outstanding library and computing facilities and to the faculty involved in the american indian studies program , benefits for the year , and a substantial stipend. applicants must be finished with all doctoral work but the dissertation , actively working in american indian studies , and committed to a career in native studies... application deadline : february 1 , 2009 . for fuller information , see the [ wretched ] pdf of the announcement available at ( http : //www.aisp.msu.edu/documents/aisppre-docannoucement2009-2010.pdf ) [ native american studies ] native american scholarship fund from the society for american archaeology , but " it is not limited to traditional archaeology field schools. please note the december 15 deadline. " [ native american studies ] smithsonian native american awards program community scholar , visiting student , and internship awards. deadlines : for summer ( to begin after june 1 ) : february 1 ; for fall ( to begin after october 1 ) : february 1 ; for spring ( to begin after january 1 ) : october 1 . [ new england studies ] historic new england research fellowships " historic new england is the new public identity for the society for the preservation of new england antiquities... " check the web site for information on their funding for : 1 ) kitchen exhibition research fellowship ( yes , that 's what it says ) ; and 2 ) their 3 types of research fellowships. note that they currently offer internships. [ new england studies ] new england regional fellowship consortium " the application deadline for new england regional fellowship consortium ( nerfc ) funding for 2011-2012 is february 1 , 2011 . the nerfc , a collaboration of eighteen major cultural agencies , will offer at least eleven awards in 2011-2012. each grant will provide a stipend of $ 5,000 for eight weeks of research at participating institutions. " please see the web site for details. [ new england studies ] new england regional research fellowships previously has awarded " the new england regional fellowship consortium , a collaboration of sixteen major cultural agencies. " for more information , please see the web site. application deadline : february 1 , 2009 . new-york historical society fellowships " the new-york historical society offers five fellowships for the 2012-2013 academic year. designed to encourage and promote the use of its extraordinary collections of primary and secondary sources relating to the history of new york and the nation , the fellowships are open to scholars at various times within their academic careers. details about residency , stipends and past fellows , as well as application instructions can be found at [ the web site linked above ] ... application deadline : dec 15 , 2011 . new york public library short-term research fellowships various awards. " fellowships will range from $ 2,500 đ $ 3,000. scholars from outside the new york metropolitan area engaged in graduate-level , post-doctoral , or independent research are invited to apply. " see the web site for details. the newberry library check for new listings. a wide variety of fellowships available , in areas including native american studies , cartography , and historical studies. center for renaissance studies fellowships. the newberry library has a strong collection in medieval texts and manuscripts , and offers a variety of fellowships in the humanities. they also offer interdisciplinary and archival programs at the newberry or folger institute for graduate students of the center 's 26 member institutions. graduate students of the folger consortium of schools may apply to folger for funds to participate in newberry programs...if you would like materials sent to you by mail , write to the committee on awards , 60 west walton street , chicago , il 60610-3380. if you have questions about the fellowships program , contact research @ newberry.org or ( 312 ) 255-3666. charlotte w. newcombe fellowships offers grants to support the study of ethical and religious values in all areas of human endevor. check large web site for full information. the deadline for all applications and application materials in the 2009 competition was november 14 , 2008--same every year ? nineteenth century studies association article prize web site a bit lumpy and needs to be updated. " ncsa is pleased to announce the 2008 article prize , which recognizes excellence in scholarly studies from any discipline focusing on any aspect of the long 19th century ( french revolution to world war i ) . the winner will receive a cash award of $ 500 to be presented at the annual meeting of ncsa. " also award a travel grant for a student giving a paper to travel to the annual conference. this information is from the 2008 announcement ; if you 're interested write to see what 's up for 2009. north carolina museum of art curatorial fellowship previously offered " the glaxosmithkline curatorial fellowship " . no sign of it on the web site now ; write and ask about its existence if you are interested. pennsylvania historical and museum commission scholars in residence program 2006/2007 " the scholars in residence program provides support for up to eight weeks of full-time research and study in manuscript and artifact collections maintained by any commission facility , including the pennsylvania state archives , the state museum of pennsylvania , and twenty-five historic sites and museums around the state... " this is perhaps still being offered , but the web page is down ( 8 sept 2008 ) . check to see if it has re-appeared. philadelphia museum of art " the center for american art and the barra foundation offer three graduate fellowships each year in the department of american art. " one year-long fellowship and two summer fellowships. please see the web site for more information. [ photography ] fellowship at the center for creative photography tucson , arizona. application deadline : oct 28 , 2011 . " our goal is to promote new knowledge about photography , photographic history , and photographic theory. through the center 's support of scholars , training of students , and dissemination of new scholarship , the center for creative photography works to ensure the growth of photographic history as a discrete field in intellectual history. fellowship applications are evaluated within this context. " please see the link for details. [ photography grants--hispanic society ] the american society for hispanic art historical studies photography grant " in keeping with its mission to encourage study of the arts of iberia , ashahs awards an annual photograph grant for the acquisition of photographs to graduate students who are preparing an ma thesis or a doctoral dissertation on topics in the history of spanish and portuguese art and architecture. ashahs may grant one award of up to $ 1000 or two awards of up to $ 500. candidates for such grants must be members of ashahs. non-members may join ashahs at the time of application ; annual dues for students are $ 26.50 ( payable by check made out to " ashahs " ) . to apply for an ashahs photographs grant , please follow these instructions : request an application form from kelly donahue-wallace ( kwallace @ unt.edu ) . complete the application and append to the form an abstract of your thesis ( ma or phd ) topic no longer than 500 words in length. include a copy of your current c.v. send the application form and abstract to : professor kelly donahue-wallace ( ashahs ) college of visual arts and design p.o. box 305100 university of north texas denton , texas 76203 have your principal thesis advisor send a confidential letter of recommendation in support of your application. the deadline for receipt of applications and supporting letters for a grant to be awarded in february 2008 was december 15 , 2007. these materials may be submitted electronically to professor donahue-wallace. [ the rather primitive web site linked above was all i could find ; announcement not updated. write and ask if the award is still available. sept 2008 ] ann plato fellowship " trinity college invites applications for a one-year pre- or post-doctoral fellowship to promote diversity at our nationally recognized liberal arts college in hartford , connecticut. ann plato fellows will join the faculty in one of our 30 academic departments or interdisciplinary programs , interact regularly with colleagues and students on campus , and work on their own research. pre-doctoral fellows will teach one course during the year ; post-doctoral fellows will teach two courses...stipend : between mid- $ 40,000 ( pre-doctoral ) to mid- $ 50,000 ( post-doctoral ) , plus health benefits , office space , computer , conference travel expenses , and assistance in finding housing near campus... review of applications begins november 1st , and will continue until the position is filled . [ pre-colombian and spanish colonial art ] mayer scholarship at the denver museum of art " doctoral students are invited to apply for the mayer scholarship , which funds two weeks of research at the museum 's collections of pre-columbian and spanish colonial art. applications are due april 1 , 2011 , for research in the 2011-12 academic year. " see the web site for details. harry ransom humanities research center ( austin , texas ) fellowships " the harry ransom center at the university of texas at austin annually awards over 50 fellowships to support scholarly research projects in all areas of the arts and humanities , including literature , photography , film , art , the performing arts , music , and cultural history. applicants must demonstrate the necessity of substantial on-site use of the center 's collections. for complete fellowship application instructions , visit http : //budurl.com/lmc9. " please see the web site for more information. william b. schallek memorial graduate fellowship award sponsored by the medieval academy of america ( formerly offered through the richard iii society ) . " beginning in 2004 , the program offers five annual dissertation awards of $ 2,000 each and a dissertation fellowship of $ 30,000 annually. for additional details , consult the medieval academy website. " smithsonian center for materials research and education ( scmre ) " the smithsonian 's museum conservation institute offers fellowship and internship opportunities involving a variety of artifact analysis , preservation , and conservation treatment specialties. " see the web site for details. smithsonian institution fellowship program ( this appears to be a general announcement ) " the smithsonian institution encourages access to its collections , staff specialties , and reference resources by visiting scholars , scientists , and students. the institution offers in-residence appointments for research and study using its facilities , and the advice and guidance of its staff members in fields that are actively pursued by the museums and research organizations of the institution. at present these fields [ include ] : history of art , especially american , contemporary , african , and asian art , twentieth-century american crafts , and decorative arts , social and cultural history of the united states... predoctoral fellowships are offered to doctoral candidates who have completed preliminary course work and examinations... postmark deadline for submission is january 15 , 2009 . " please see the web site for more information and application forms. smithsonian history of art fellowships " the smithsonian institution offers research fellowships in the history of art , design , crafts , and the decorative arts which can be taken up at any one of several of the smithsonian 's museums including the freer | sackler , the smithsonian 's museums of asian art. a variety of predoctoral , postdoctoral , and senior fellowships are available. fellowships are residential and support independent and dissertation research. the stipend for a one-year fellowship is $ 30,000 for predoctoral fellows or $ 45,000 for senior and postdoctoral fellows , plus research and travel allowances. the standard term of residency is twelve months , but shorter terms will be considered ; stipends are prorated for periods of less than twelve months. application deadline : january 15 , 2011 . for more information please visit [ the web site link above ] . " smithsonian postgraduate fellowships in conservation of museum collections " this fellowships program is offered by the smithsonian institution to provide opportunities for recent graduates of masters programs in art and archaeological conservation or the equivalent or conservation scientists , including those at the postdoctoral level , who wish to conduct research and gain further training in smithsonian conservation laboratories for conservation of objects in museum collections for a period of one year... deadline : january 15 , 2009 . smithsonian opportunities for research and study this is a large online database for predoctoral as well as postdoctoral applicants. contains links to many of the awards listed above. awards range from 10 weeks to 12 months. much too long to summarize ; visit the web site. social science research council : predissertation fellowships for graduate students " to enable humanities and social science graduate students to conduct preliminary research and prepare dissertation research and funding proposals , the social science research council offers dissertation proposal development fellowships. fellows participate in two proposal preparation workshops and receive up to $ 5,000 in support of research during the summer of 2010...for full descriptions of the research fields , eligibility and application requirements , and the dpdf program , along with links to the ssrc online application portal , visit the dpdf website [ above ] . the society of architectural historians please visit the web site and follow the link to the fellowship page for full information. note that the sah has several regional chapters , some of which offer fellowship programs of their own. a fellowship ( not on their list ) is the john coolidge educational fund fellowships , offered by the new england chapter of the sah. these " will be awarded to a graduate or undergraduate student at a new england college or university engaged in the study of architectural history or a closely allied field such as urban planning , landscape architecture , decorative arts , or historic preservation... [ and ] the robert rettig student travel fellowship. please see their own web site for full information. paul and daisy soros fellowships for new americans for graduate study in the professions and academic disciplines at any institution of higher education in the united states. the fellowships are for up to two years. each year the fellow receives a maintenance grant of $ 20,000 and a tuition grant of one-half of the cost of the us graduate program. eligibility : a new american is a person who holds a green card , or is already a naturalized citizen , or a child of two naturalized citizen parents. individuals completing or already holding their bachelor 's degrees or enrolled in a graduate program are eligible. please see the web site for more information. [ sport ] john h. daniels fellowship at the national sporting library " the library is a center for research in horse and field sports located just 42 miles west of washington , d.c. its book , art , manuscript , periodical and archival collections cover equestrian sports , angling , shooting , and other field sports from the 16th century to the present...researchers are asked to submit an application , proposing a research project to be conducted at the library. researchers must demonstrate in their proposals what collections and books they will consult. application instructions and a brochure can be found on the library 's website...the application deadline is february 1 , 2009 . successful applicants will be notified by the end of march. [ south , u.s. ] deep south regional humanities center in the past , they have offered fellowships and other types of support for graduate students. check to see what they may be offering now. [ south , u.s. ] frances s. summersell center for the study of the south " ...will offer three fellowships in the amount of $ 500 each for researchers whose projects entail work to be conducted in southern history or southern studies at the w.s. hoole special collections library or in other university of alabama collections...the deadline for applications to be received by the summersell center is march 15 , 2011 . decisions regarding awards will be made by may 1 , 2011 , and research may be conducted anytime between june 1 , 2011 and may 31 , 2012. both academic and non-academic researchers at any stage of their careers are encouraged to apply...send all application materials to : frances s. summersell center for the study of the south department of history university of alabama box 870212 , 202 ten hoor hall tuscaloosa , al 35487 any questions about the fellowships may be directed to joshua rothman , director of the summersell center , at ( jrothman @ bama.ua.edu ) or 205.348.3818. more information about the summersell center is available at www.scss.ua.edu , and on our facebook page. " suburban studies fellowship 2010 [ at last ! my people have been discovered ! ] " the montgomery county historical society ( mchs ) is pleased to announce the mary kay harper center for suburban studies ( mkh-css ) fellowship to support scholarly research in the field of suburban studies. the mkh-css fellowship supports the research of a graduate student enrolled in an accredited u.s. college or university researching suburban studies , especially as the subject relates to montgomery county , maryland...preference will be given to projects that plan to use the mchs jane c. sween research library and archives in rockville , maryland...for 2010 đ 11 , the [ stipend ] will be $ 2,000... applications due by may 31 , 2010 . send or e-mail completed applications to : debbie rankin , executive director montgomery county historical society 111 w. montgomery ave. rockville , md 20850 drankin @ montgomeryhistory.org swann foundation for caricature and cartoon fellowship " the swann foundation seeks to award one fellowship annually ( with a stipend of up to $ 15,000 ) to assist the fellow in his/her ongoing scholarly research and writing projects in the field of caricature and cartoon. completed applications usually due in february. please see the web site for more information. terra foundation for american art europe " the terra summer residency is available for the us ph.d. students in art history and artists who have obtained their master of fine arts. " please see the web site. united states capitol historical society fellowship for " graduate students enrolled in a degree program in art or architectural history , american history , american studies , museum studies , or decorative arts , and scholars with a proven record of research and publication may apply. applications must be postmarked by march 15 . " please see the web site for more information. urban history association annual prizes awards for books and best dissertation in urban history. see the web site for more information. vatican film library : see above at : andrew w. mellon fellowship program at the knights of columbus vatican film library at saint louis university virginia tech minority faculty mentoring program for abd fellows " several fellowships offered to provide teaching and research experience in a virginia tech department for selected minority doctoral students who plan a career in academia. award not renewable. award amount : stipend of $ 25,000 , relocation cost of $ 1,000 , and travel expense reimbursement up to $ 500. " note that the link is from a site at ucla : be sure to check with vt about this program. deadline : 1/7/2009 . walters art museum fellowship " the walters art museum is pleased to offer the carol bates fellowship for the period september 2008 through june 2009. [ appears to be annual ] this privately funded fellowship provides a stipend of $ 17,000 plus benefits. the walters seeks applications from graduate students in art history who are interested in pursuing a museum career in the united states. applicants should have completed the m.a. degree and be enrolled in a ph.d. program at the time of application. " please see the web site for more information. western association of women historians ' graduate student conference paper prize " ...an annual $ 100 prize that recognizes the outstanding paper presented by a graduate student at the annual wawh conference. ( 20-23 may 2010 . university of puget sound in tacoma , washington. paper and panel submissions are due october 15 , 2009 . the committee will judge the presented paper , normally 10-12 pages. the presenter must also still submit a copy to the commentator of their panel. all fields of history will be considered , and articles must be submitted with full scholarly apparatus. contact the committee chair with any questions about the prize : paivi hoikkala , phoikkala @ csupomona.edu ( mailto : phoikkala @ csupomona.edu ) . contact the executive director with questions about the organization : amy essington , amyessington @ wawh.org ( mailto : amyessington @ wawh.org ) western history association student travel award " this award provides $ 500 in travel support for graduate students ( ma or phd ) to attend the western history association meeting , held this year in denver from october 7-10 2009. in addition , the cost of conference registration and tickets to the welcoming reception , the graduate student social hour , and the presidential luncheon will be included in the award. students need not be presenting at the conference to be eligible for the award. application deadline was july 15 , 2009 ( post mark date ) . to be considered for this award , please send a letter of interest , a vita , and a letter of support from a faculty advisor to each member of the committee. committee members and mailing addresses can be found at this link : ( http : //www.umsl.edu/ ~ wha/awards/sgrad.html ) . letters of support may be sent separately from application materials. more information about the western history association , including conference information , can be found here : ( http : //www.umsl.edu/ ~ wha/ ) . if you have any questions about the application process , please contact laurie arnold , chair of the trennert-iverson scholarship committee , at ( larnold @ nd.edu ) . edith wharton collection research award " deadline : march 15 , 2010 . each year the edith wharton society offers an edith wharton collection research award of $ 1500 to enable a scholar to conduct research on the edith wharton collection of materials at the beinecke library at yale university. prospective fellows for the 2010-2011 award are asked to submit a research proposal ( maximum length 5 single-spaced pages ) and a resume by march 15 , 2010 to margaret murray at ( murraym @ wcsu.edu ) or at this address : margaret murray professor of english western connecticut state university danbury , ct 06810 usa " the research proposal should detail the overall research project , its particular contribution to wharton scholarship , the preparation the candidate brings to the project , and the specific relevance that materials at the beinecke collection have for its completion. the funds need to be used for transportation , lodging , and other expenses related to a stay at the library.notification of the award will take place by april 15th and the award can be used from may 1 , 2010 till may 1 , 2011. a final report will be due june 1 , 2011. the winner will be asked at that point to submit a short report essay to the edith wharton review , which will briefly inform the readers of the ewr of the research done but will not be in the way of the winner publishing a scholarly article elsewhere as well. " woodrow wilson national fellowship foundation a list of fellowships for students in several areas. winterthur museum , garden , and library : fellowships " winterthur institute is a 2-week course on the decorative arts in america and is designed to appeal to students , museum professionals , collectors , appraisers , dealers and interior decorators , among others. fall session ( september 20- october 2 ) concentrates on the decorative arts made and used in america from 1783-1930. morning lectures and small group workshops in the afternoon are taught by winterthur curators and other specialists. topics covered include furniture styles , ceramics , glass , textiles , architecture , american interiors , lighting implements , and silver. tuition is $ 1600 and includes all lectures , workshops , museum tours , field trips , two lunches and one dinner. admission is on a rolling basis and by application only. final deadline for application is july 27 , 2009 . direct all inquiries to : winter institute , office of continuing education programs , winterthur museum , winterthur , de 19735 or call 800.448.3883 ext 4786. additional information can be found at www.winterthur.org. wolfsonian research center " fellowships are awarded for full-time research at the wolfsonian , generally for periods of three to five weeks. fellowships include a stipend , accommodations , and round-trip travel. " see the web site for more information. yale center for british art visiting scholars program " the center...offers several pre-doctoral fellowships ranging from one to two months for graduate students writing doctoral dissertations in the field of british art. applicants from north america must be abd to qualify. applications for fellowships between july 2009 and june 2010 must reach the ycba by january 16 , 2009 . women , men , and gender awards and fellowships american association of university women in the past they have offered dissertation fellowships with a stipend is $ 20,000 for the year. ca n't find them on the rather jumbled web site--but take a look , maybe i 'm just too nearsighted ! association of black women historians " drusilla dunjee houston memorial scholarship award is a $ 300 cash award , sponsored by the black classic press and administered by the association of black women historians ( abwh ) . it is open to black women graduate students of history or a historically related field. requirements for applicants : black women graduate students currently pursuing an m.a. degree or ph.d. degree in history or a historically related field ; short writing sample using primary sources ; resume ; two letters of recommendation ( at least one from the applicant 's major professor or advisor ) ; copy of applicant 's transcript. applicants are responsible for compiling three copies of the above documents and submitting them in one complete packet. applications must be postmarked by august 1 , 2007 . send applications to : prudence cumberbatch , ph.d. , assistant professor of africana studies , brooklyn college , 2900 bedford avenue , brooklyn , new york 11210 sallie bingham center for women 's history and culture : mary lily research grants 2006 " grant money may be used for travel to the rare book , manuscript , and special collections library , costs of copying pertinent archival resources , and living expenses while pursuing research here. the maximum award per applicant is $ 1,000...we strongly encourage applicants to speak with the public services librarian before applying for the grant. past applications have demonstrated that those who spoke with a staff member about their projects produced stronger applications. we can lead you to potential sources of which you may not otherwise be aware. the next cycle of awards will be for use between march 2006 and august 2007. applications must be received or postmarked by january 17 , 2006 . awards will be announced on march 15 , 2006. if you have questions please contact linda daniel , public services librarian for the sallie bingham center , by email at linda.daniel @ duke.edu or by phone at ( 919 ) 660-5920. [ please see the web site for more information. ] please mail applications to : the mary lily research grant application the sallie bingham center for women 's history and culture rare book , manuscript , and special collections library box 90185 duke university durham , nc 27708-0185 u.s.a. butcher scholar award " the institute for the study of the american west at the autry national center seeks applicants for the butcher scholar award. we welcome applications for innovative projects that promise to deepen our understanding of the history of diverse women in the historical and contemporary west. the stipend will be up to $ 5,000 , depending on the scope of the project. residence at the autry national center is not required. deadline for proposals was may 26 , 2008. appears to be annual. for more information and details about applying , please visit the butcher scholar award web page or contact carolyn brucken , curator of western women 's history : ( cbrucken @ autrynationalcenter.org ) canadian federation of university women several types of grants for canadian women graduate students. five college women 's studies research center a collaborative project of amherst , hampshire , mount holyoke , and smith colleges and the university of massachusetts , amherst. " the center invites applications for its research associateships for 2009-2010 from scholars and teachers at all levels of the educational system , as well as from artists , community organizers and political activists , both local and international. deadline is february 9 , 2009 . for further information , ssee the web site. ccwh catherine prelinger award this award is actually for applicants with the phd or abd ; however they do have graduate student awards. check here . the mary isabel sibley fellowship stipend of $ 20,000 awarded in alternate years for the study of greek language , literature , history , or archaeology , or for the study of french language or literature. candidates must be unmaried women between 25 and 35 years of age who have demonstrated their ability to carry on original research. the phi beta kappa society is currently accepting applications for the 2009 sibley fellowship in greek studies. the deadline for the fellowship is january 15 , 2009 . see the web site for more information. massachusetts historical society " the application deadline for the ruth r. & alyson r. miller fellowships for 2010-2011 is march 1 , 2010. these awards are to encourage research in women 's history. they carry a stipend of $ 2,000 to support four weeks of research at the massachusetts historical society. for information on the miller fellowships-as well as on other short-term fellowship competitions at the mhs-please see our website [ above ] . kate viens research coordinator massachusetts historical society 1154 boylston street boston , ma 02215-3695 617-646-0568 western association of women historians : the kanner award one of several awards , including one for best graduate student paper. see the excellent web site. woodrow wilson dissertation grants in women 's studies to help support research about women in many areas of the humanities and social sciences , including women in art open to students who have completed all predissertation requirements at graduate schools in the us. applications may be downloaded from the website. deadline seems to be in october every year. check the web site. resources in art history for graduate students back to the index of this site this web site was created by , is owned by , and maintained by adrienne deangelis.
