education art history search art history artists styles works of art share share this page on : send to a friend via email your suggestion is on its way ! an email with a link to : http : //arthistory.about.com/ was emailed to : thanks for sharing about.com with others ! most emailed articles how to make a vinegar trap to catch fruit flies 10 tips for getting rid of fruit flies tips and strategies for the 5 common application essay optio... 12 college interview questions you should master how to make ice that actually glows in the dark gc must reads 60-second artist bios art history timelines how to write an art history paper what is art ? the art history glossary alexander noelle about.com art history sign up for my newsletter my bio headlines browse topic artists a to z art history 101 timelines of art history ancient art history medieval art history renaissance art history modern art history contemporary art history images / picture galleries types of visual art art by location / culture art museums / galleries blog michelangelo 's famous frescoes the sistine chapel ceiling it was n't michelangelo 's fault that the ceiling took four years. the work suffered numerous setbacks , such as mold and miserable , damp weather that disallowed plaster curing. read more » recent exhibitions picasso : guitars 1912 – 1914 hide/seek : difference and desire in american portraiture rembrandt and his school famous paintings the scream by edvard munch christina 's world by andrew wyeth leonardo da vinci 's " the last supper " it was always popular but , ever since a certain novel was published , leonardo 's milanese mural has become the most intensely scrutinized painting on the planet. here are answers to 10 common questions about the last supper. read more » the italian high renaissance male youth in the florentine school leonardo da vinci bio art history spotlight 10 ready-made ready-made objet trouv é objet trouv é f ê te champ ê tre f ê te champ ê tre realism - art history 101 basics realism - art history 101 basics neo-classicism - art history 101 basics neo-classicism - art history 101 basics romanticism - art history 101 basics romanticism is precisely situated neither in choice of subject nor in exact truth , but in a way of feeling. - charles baudelaire ( 1821-1867 ) the baroque - art history 101 basics the baroque - art history 101 basics artists in 60 seconds : cecilia beaux a biographical profile of cecilia beaux ( 1855-1942 ) , american portrait painter. guess the artist artists ' quotes : paul c é zanne quotes by artist paul c é zanne /gc free art history newsletter ! sign up you can opt-out at any time. please refer to our privacy policy for contact information . explore art history must reads 60-second artist bios art history timelines how to write an art history paper what is art ? the art history glossary most popular what should you know about the elements of art ? how to define art 10 things you might not know about " the last... what dada was and why it matters how much do you know about pop art ? free art history newsletter ! sign up by category artists a to z art history 101 timelines of art history ancient art history medieval art history renaissance art history modern art history contemporary art history images / picture galleries types of visual art art by location / culture art museums / galleries blog art history about.com education art history most popular latest articles rss advertise on about.com our story news sitemap all topics reprints help write for about careers at about user agreement ethics policy patent info. privacy policy your ad choices and cookie policy © 2014 about.com. all rights reserved . start atlas toolbar end atlas toolbar
