hercules studio - a hercules gui for mac os x and linux hercules studio is a gui front-end to the hercules mainframe emulator on mac and linux . to use hercules studio the hercules emulator must have previously been instaled. hercules must be built with gui support . to discuss hercules studio , ask for support , or make enhancement request , please use the hercules studio discussion group at http : //tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/hercstudio/ installing hercules studio linux on most major distributions hercules studio can be obtained using the distribution 's package management system. distributions that already include hercules studio are : ubuntu , debian and other debian derivatives ( see this guide ) redhat enterprise linux and fedora ( see this guide ) slackware see here : http : //www.nielshorn.net/slackware/slack_pkg.php other distributions - see bellow if your distribution does not yet provide hercules studio package you can download the appropriate package from one of the following links : hercules studio 1.5.0 in rpm 64-bit format - for 64-bit rpm-based distributions hercules studio 1.5.0 in deb 64-bit format - for 64-bit deb-based distributions hercules studio 15.0 in rpm 32-bit format - for 32-bit rpm-based distributions hercules studio 1.5.0 in deb 32-bit format - for 32-bit deb-based distributions mac os x hercstudio-1.5.0-mountainlion.dmg - for mac os x mountain lion ( 10.8 ) through mac os x mavericks ( 10.9 ) 64 bit . source tarball : herculesstudio-1.5.0-src.tar.gz note : the new virtual printer functionality is described on this page installation details : rpm packages : $ deb packages : $ once installed , start the program from the main menu at /applications/system-tools/ , or by typing " herculesstudio " at the shell prompt . mac os x : mount the image and click on the program icon to start hercules studio . operation after installing hercules studio the easiest way to start it is by navigating to applications- > system tools- > hercules studio menu entry and selecting it from there . there are two command line options that enable customizing it 's behavior on startup : -f - will startup hercules immediately with the given configuration -r - will setup hercules to use the given " run-command " file this way the entire startup of the guest operating system can be automated . example : herculesstudio -f mvs38.conf -r autoipl.rc prerequisites 1. qt environment hercules studio is based on the qt framework. you can skip this if you use kde window manager ( which is also based on qt ) . under redhat/fedora you will need to install package qt-x11 using the command : su -c " yum install qt-x11 " on debian-based systems ( like ubuntu ) issue the following command : sudo aptitude install libqtcore4 libqtgui4 2. hercules configuration ( note : you can ignore this part if your hercules version is 3.08 or above ) hercules should be configured and built to support a gui ( this was not the default on linux before version 3.08 ) : ./configure --enable-external-gui source repository : there are 3 branches to the repository : master , qt4 and 1.4.0 ( stable ) : 1. master the master development branch contains the latest fixes and can only be compiled with qt5 . 2. qt 4 the qt4 development branch is the parallel branch of the master , but it is used to build hercules studio against qt4 . 3. 1.4.0 this is the last release branch , as it was on december 2012 , when the 1.4.0 release was done. this is also the branch which all distributions use to build hercules studio . retrieving the source : master development branch ( qt5-only ) : git clone git : //git.code.sf.net/p/hercstudio/git-code hercstudio-git-code development branch for 1.4.0 ( qt4-only ) : git clone -b qt4 git : //git.code.sf.net/p/hercstudio/git-code hercstudio-git-code stable 1.4.0 branch ( qt4-only , only critical fixes ) : git clone -b 1.4.0 git : //git.code.sf.net/p/hercstudio/git-code hercstudio-git-code the install file located in the source root directory contains complete instructions on building and installing hercules studio from source . ( c ) 2009-2013 jacob dekel jacob -at- jacobdekel. com hercules is ( c ) copyright of roger bowler , jan jaeger , and others
