loading .. . sorry , an error occurred while loading the content . meta /meta home mail news sports finance weather games groups answers screen flickr mobile more celebrity movies music tv health beauty food tech shopping travel autos homes yahoo ! groups search groups search web sign in mail help account info help suggestions yahoo home contextual_shortcuts /contextual_shortcuts property : groups | languagetag : en-us | status : active | spaceid : 96584352 | cobrand : standard | markup : empty empty alert template : form-1 /template : form-1 template : form-2 /template : form-2 /alert welcome to yahoo groups . an extension to your real life group of friends , interests and communities . what 's new : see video navbar sign in or start a new group you must be a registered yahoo user to start a group. sign up end of navbar get the app browse groups terms privacy guidelines feedback help blog turnkey-mvs restricted group , 1434 members conversations photos files attachments events polls links database about more help attachments events polls links database about edit membership back about group join group 1 member added in the last 7 days group description provides a space for discussing the tur ( n ) key - mvs system and to provide support for this system in the unlikely case of bugs or errors : ) in your membership request comment , please give us some indication that you know what the turnkey system is or does , where you might have gotten it , or past experience relating to it. we 're not an elitist group ; this will merely help us decide that you belong in the group , and keep the spam-bots out . please do not submit membership requests via email. yahoo strips out your message text and we need that to decide on your request . group website http : //www.turnkey-mvs.de/turnkey group information members : 1434 category : operating systems founded : oct 1 , 2002 language : english group settings this is a restricted group . attachments are permitted . members can not hide email address . not listed in yahoo groups directory . membership requires approval . messages are not moderated . all members can post messages . group email addresses post message : turnkey-mvs @ yahoogroups.com subscribe : turnkey-mvs-subscribe @ yahoogroups.com unsubscribe : turnkey-mvs-unsubscribe @ yahoogroups.com list owner : turnkey-mvs-owner @ yahoogroups.com message history members of this group also joined kicks for cms & tso restricted group , 230 members kicks is an enhancement for cms and tso on ibm mainframes ( or emulators ) that lets you run your cics ...more spaceid = 35605261 loc = fsrvy noad fac-gd2-noad gd2-status-2 qyz cms_none_selected,,72.30.211.96 ; ; fsrvy ; 35605261 ; 2 ;
