loading .. . sorry , an error occurred while loading the content . meta /meta home mail news sports finance weather games groups answers screen flickr mobile more celebrity movies music tv health beauty food tech shopping travel autos homes yahoo ! groups search groups search web sign in mail help account info help suggestions yahoo home contextual_shortcuts /contextual_shortcuts property : groups | languagetag : en-us | status : active | spaceid : 96584352 | cobrand : standard | markup : empty empty alert template : form-1 /template : form-1 template : form-2 /template : form-2 /alert welcome to yahoo groups . an extension to your real life group of friends , interests and communities . what 's new : see video navbar sign in or start a new group you must be a registered yahoo user to start a group. sign up end of navbar get the app browse groups terms privacy guidelines feedback help blog h390-vm restricted group , 1940 members conversations photos files attachments events polls links database about more help attachments events polls links database about edit membership back about group join group 3 members , 26 messages added in the last 7 days group description hercules-390 users that are trying to run vm on emulated 370 , 390 , and z/systems group information members : 1940 category : emulation founded : dec 6 , 2000 language : english group settings this is a restricted group . attachments are permitted . members can not hide email address . listed in yahoo groups directory . membership requires approval . messages are not moderated . all members can post messages . group email addresses post message : h390-vm @ yahoogroups.com subscribe : h390-vm-subscribe @ yahoogroups.com unsubscribe : h390-vm-unsubscribe @ yahoogroups.com list owner : h390-vm-owner @ yahoogroups.com message history members of this group also joined kicks for cms & tso restricted group , 230 members kicks is an enhancement for cms and tso on ibm mainframes ( or emulators ) that lets you run your cics ...more spaceid = 0 timeout ( ads1 )
