jobs about us terms of use privacy policy domains for sale advertise with us submit articles/contribute feeds / syndication store contact us home forums general discussions server virtualization application virtualization desktop virtualization network virtualization storage virtualization virtual appliance backup & dr virtualization security monitoring & performance training & certification blog & tutorials news server virtualization desktop virtualization storage virtualization network virtualization mobile virtualization cloud computing security data center hardware industry whitepapers vendors events videos jobs certifications & training online practice exams vcp-510 practice exams us army moving education content to cloud for better access us army moving education content to cloud for better access july 8 , 2014 5 : 41 pm | 0 comments eighteen months ago , the u.s. army training and doctrine command began migrating education content to the dotcom cloud , a commercially operated bank of servers. this is a significant step for several reasons. the army is currently a common access card-enabled , windows-based devices operating environment. that means soldiers can ’ t access much of the training and education [ … ] read more qnap showcases its next generation nas at computex 2014 qnap showcases its next generation nas at computex 2014 june 9 , 2014 4 : 12 pm | 0 comments qnap , inc. unveiled its next generation nas designed for both soho and home entertainment aficionados , the ts-x51 along with an industry-first private cloud computing capability feature at computex 2014. the qnap ts-x51 features a potent intel celeron dual-core processor , an upgrade of the atom nas series , and comes standard with the latest qts 4.1 operating [ … ] read more sk planet chooses metacloud for its openstack-based private cloud solution sk planet chooses metacloud for its openstack-based private cloud solution june 9 , 2014 4 : 05 pm | 0 comments metacloud , inc. , a leader in deploying and operating openstack as a service for some of the world ’ s largest companies , is pleased to announce a deal with sk telecom subsidiary sk planet. established in october 2011 , sk planet is leading the revolution of online and mobile service platforms with its digital content , integrated commerce , and advertising [ … ] read more parasoft and skytap deliver cloud-based development testing parasoft and skytap deliver cloud-based development testing june 9 , 2014 3 : 17 pm | 0 comments parasoft , the leading provider of service virtualization , api testing , and development testing technologies , and skytap , the leading provider of self-service application development environments in the cloud , today announced a joint offering that delivers cloud-based development testing. the joint solution featuring parasoft development testing platform ( which includes parasoft static analysis and unit testing ) and skytap cloud [ … ] read more hardware servint introduces new flex twocore and flex threecore semi-dedicated , fully managed servers jan 14 , 2013 22 : 44 cloud computing sk planet chooses metacloud for its openstack-based private cloud solution jun 9 , 2014 16 : 05 blog & tutorials how to setup multi site sql 2012 alwayson cluster with two fcis across datacenters ? mar 24 , 2014 14 : 16 whitepapers best practices for monitoring virtual environments videos angry gamer xbox one cloud computing power ! may 4 , 2014 20 : 53 tell your friends about us ! virtualization & cloud forum unique qmid registry edit with a cloned image dynamically changing resources in a vm virtualization of my 8 servers into 4 servers cool app hw needed for win2012 virtualization virtual server and scsi-3 pgr bringing desktop games to android using virtualization engine [ ws10.x ] lightdm resolution problem can you achieve compliance with a backup solution ? suggetion polls which vdi / virtual desktop solution is your organization using ? citrix xendesktop vdi in a box microsoft vmware view quest vworkspace other view results loading ... share with us ! please contact us if you have an interesting news , tips , acquisition rumor , requests for guest blogging , case-studies , white papers and any other suggestions and/or ideas , etc.. subscribe today : updates via email enter your email address : about us about us domains for sale privacy policy terms of use advertise with us feeds / syndication store submit articles/contribute virtualization & cloud computing news us army moving education content to cloud for better access eighteen months ago , the u.s. army training and doctrine command began migrating education content to the dotcom cloud , a commercially operated bank of servers. this is a significant step for several reasons. the army is currently a common access card-enabled , windows-based devices operating environment. that means soldiers can ’ t access much of the training and education [ … ] cloud computing july 8 , 2014 5 : 41 pm qnap showcases its next generation nas at computex 2014 qnap , inc. unveiled its next generation nas designed for both soho and home entertainment aficionados , the ts-x51 along with an industry-first private cloud computing capability feature at computex 2014. the qnap ts-x51 features a potent intel celeron dual-core processor , an upgrade of the atom nas series , and comes standard with the latest qts 4.1 operating [ … ] storage virtualization june 9 , 2014 4 : 12 pm sk planet chooses metacloud for its openstack-based private cloud solution metacloud , inc. , a leader in deploying and operating openstack as a service for some of the world ’ s largest companies , is pleased to announce a deal with sk telecom subsidiary sk planet. established in october 2011 , sk planet is leading the revolution of online and mobile service platforms with its digital content , integrated commerce , and advertising [ … ] cloud computing june 9 , 2014 4 : 05 pm parasoft and skytap deliver cloud-based development testing parasoft , the leading provider of service virtualization , api testing , and development testing technologies , and skytap , the leading provider of self-service application development environments in the cloud , today announced a joint offering that delivers cloud-based development testing. the joint solution featuring parasoft development testing platform ( which includes parasoft static analysis and unit testing ) and skytap cloud [ … ] cloud computing june 9 , 2014 3 : 17 pm us data capital poised to advance leadership position in big data the northern virginia technology council ( nvtc ) , the george washington university ( gw ) , and attain , llc , has released a research report conducted by chmura economics and analytics highlighting the depth and breadth of big data experience , expertise and assets in northern virginia and the potomac region. the report “ big data and analytics in northern virginia and the [ … ] cloud computing may 14 , 2014 12 : 18 pm new vipr software-defined storage brings cloud-scale capabilities to the masses emc world 2014 today at emc world 2014 , emc corporation ( nyse : emc ) announced vipr 2.0 — a software-defined storage platform that dramatically simplifies the management of both existing and new storage infrastructure , and provides new data services to underpin next-generation applications and big data analytics. the 3rd platform of it is based on the mega [ … ] storage virtualization may 7 , 2014 8 : 58 pm emc offers $ 1 million xtremio flash guarantee emc world 2014 emc corporation ( nyse : emc ) today announced “ the xtremio $ 1million guarantee ” for emc ® xtremiotm all-flash array customers , offering one million dollars to the first customer that can prove their xtremio system ’ s inline data services have switched off , been throttled back or defaulted to a “ system garbage collection ” state. “ inline data services are critical to [ … ] storage virtualization may 7 , 2014 8 : 09 pm silver peak announces vspex solution to deliver high-performance replication over distance silver peak today announced that its data acceleration software has been vspex ® lab validated as part of an emc ® vspex solution to address the challenges customers face when replicating data over long distances. silver peak for vspex combines wide area network ( wan ) optimization software with virtual emc recoverpoint ® to enable customers to deploy a proven [ … ] storage virtualization may 7 , 2014 2 : 25 pm popular virtualization & cloud computing tags amp applications backup blogs cisco data center dell esxi europe google hardware horizon view hyper-v hypervisor infrastructure linux market mobile monitoring netapp networking network virtualization oracle performance private cloud red hat replication san security server virtualization software ssd storage virtualization vcenter virtual desktop vsphere page 1 of 509 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 20 30 ... » last » subscribe by rss home forum news blog & tutorials jobs feeds / syndication about us contact us advertise with us store © copyright 2014 — . all rights reserved .
