the new plex86 x86 virtual machine project donate ! donate to project ! developers cvs mailing lists sf project page successes redhat 7.3 nfs boot linux 2.5.59 bootlog linux 2.4.20 x app ! downloads downloads page news sf news forum expos/conferences in the media documentation faq performance w elcome to the new plex86 project. plex86 has been rehashed/revitalized to offer a very lightweight virtual machine ( vm ) for running linux/x86. rather than implement a full and heavyweight vm which can run all guest operating systems ( oses ) , the new approach is designed to run only linux vms , making the new plex86 architecture on the order of 10x or 100x more simplistic . a s linux does not make use of " corner cases " which necessitate complex software techniques ( e.g. dynamic translation and other execution monitoring methods ) , plex86 now implements no such techniques. rather , guest linux code is executed as-is in a safe vm environment managed by a vm monitor. guest kernel code is executed at a less priviliged level , causing privileged operations to generate exceptions which are managed by the vm monitor . v irtualized io model : because the linux kernel can easily be configured before compiling to remove support for most all io hardware , the model for handling io in the guest linux vm is greatly simplified and improved in plex86. excepting for some very lightweight emulation of a few core components ( e.g. interupt controller , system timer ) , plex86 does not model ( emulate ) io hardware. all io interactions occur through a hardware abstraction layer ( hal ) which passes packets of information between the guest linux and the host os. this not only removes the complexity/overhead of modeling io hardware , but allows for more flexibility in dealing with guest-host interactions and creates a truly virtualized linux resource which is unrooted from the actual hardware. guest linux drivers interact with the hal to manage io related interactions ( networking/disk/etc ) with the host os . 2003-dec-19 : help startup plex86 again , please donate ! 2003-jul-07 : plex86 v0.1 released . 2003-feb-17 : initial source code upload to cvs
