syfy global header and top ad begins place banners above global nav here /syfy global header and top ad ends replaced by js with the features syfy video sharknado as motivational speech sharknado as motivational speech along with one of the best kills ever ! defiance - sneak peek - painted from memory defiance - sneak peek - painted from memory check out a sneak peek of the next episode of defiance , thursdays at 8/7c . spartacus - sneak peek - whore spartacus - sneak peek - whore catch a sneak peek of the next episode of spartacus , thursdays at 10/9c . inside defiance - season 2 - episode 8 inside defiance - season 2 - episode 8 get an inside look at defiance episode 8 of season 2. join executive producer kevin murphy and cast for in-depth interviews that break down the latest episode . more games at syfy games what 's new the defiant few prevent a war. save defiance. be a hero. join the adventure and you could win a new dodge . tweet off : fan favorite sweepstakes help choose the face off fan favorite - and learn how you can win big ! shark movies ! sharknado 2 put you in the mood for some more shark movies ? we 've got them ( or lots of others , too ) . ascension aptitude test what role would you serve on ascension , syfy 's new event series coming in nov ? find out . wizard wars magicians compete in trick wars that will blow your mind ! coming tuesday at 10/9c . dominion : citizen 's handbook survive the angels. become a citizen. enter the world of dominion . sharknado : the game play for free on iphone , ipad and ipod touch. can you survive a sharknado ? go shark yourself app insert yourself into the sharknado and share the picture with friends . sharknado 2 screening attend a special screening of sharknado 2 - featuring a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the movie . start 300x250 ad /end 300x250 ad free issue of sci fi magazine body-level tracking goes in this div body tracking begins sitecatalyst code version : h.2. copyright 1997-2005 omniture , inc. more info available at http : //www.omniture.com /do not remove/ end sitecatalyst code version : h.2 . client custom 1x1 's go here google code for syfy - entire site begin ignited - homepage /end ignited /body tracking ends faq feedback terms privacy adchoices membership advertising closed captioning syfy international : asia australia benelux france germany latin america poland portugal spain uk © 2014 , syfy. all rights reserved . independent programming report tell us what you think about your favorite nbcu programs by becoming a tv panel member . /syfy global footer ends footer-level tracking goes in this div clarity ray addition 2012 09 /end clarity ray trion floodlight tag start of doubleclick floodlight tag : please do not remove activity name of this tag : defiance : syfy other web pages ( retargetnig ) url of the webpage where the tag is expected to be placed : http : //tbd.com this tag must be placed between the < body > and < /body > tags , as close as possible to the opening tag. creation date : 03/11/2013 end of doubleclick floodlight tag : please do not remove /trion floodlight tag please include the script tag and code below on the web page that will house an arkfall chartbeat tracting code /chartbeat tracking
