discovering your world of science fiction , fantasy and horror movies ∞ developments ∞ books & authors ∞ television ∞ news & features ∞ shop ∞ links into the storm in theatres august 8 film development august 4 - elijah wood has joined the supernatural action film the last witch hunter with vin diesel , michael caine and rose leslie.. . film development august 4 - pride and prejudice and zombies starts filming in september with actors lily james , sam riley and bella heathcote are set to lead.. . guardians of the galaxy in theatres august 1 film development july 9 - rebecca ferguson will star opposite tom cruise in mission : impossible 5 . chris mcquarrie will direct.. . film development july 9 - jane krakowski is joining the cast of columbia pictures ’ pixels opposite adam sandler and kevin james.. . film development july 7 - emily mortimer is in negotiations to star in spectral , legendary ’ s supernatural action movie.. . film development august 6 - batman v. superman : dawn of justice is moving up from may 6 , 2016 to march 25.. . film development august 6 - arnold posted the new name for his film - terminator : genisys .. . film development august 6 - lee pace has lined up sci-fi thriller prisoner of war as his next leading role.. . film development july 30 - alex kurtzman is in final negotiations to direct universal ’ s reboot of the mummy .. . film development july 29 - warner bros has optioned the dragonriders of pern book series from the estate of american-irish author anne mccaffrey.. . film development july 28 - christopher walken will voice king louie and giancarlo esposito will play akela in disney ‘ s jungle book .. . batman v superman film development july 10 - darren lynn bousman is attached to helm apex , an indie sci-fi action project from 2511 productions.. . film development july 10 - albert torres will write locke & key , universal ’ s adaptation of the supernatural comic book series by joe hill and gabriel rodriguez.. . 250x250ad if you love our site , then show some like. read the last one a fantasy adventure novel by michael edward shop the alienalmanac store hey , you 've spent your money on worse things . promote your product we 'll help you spread the word....just make sure it 's related to sci-fi content . see our features link exchange something in it for you and for me contact us alienalmanac.com - abducting humans since 2004 ∞ contact ∞ about ∞ .container_12
