< ! [ endif ] a universe of science fiction /header right-header-widgets /right-header-widgets /col-control /nav // # header-container breaking bad t-shirts fashion no responses » /.postdata /.title mar 25 2014 /.title-container i am not a fan of the series ( don ’ t even think i will bother to watch it streaming on netflix some night when i am desperate. but i know there are a lot of fans out there and you might all like today ’ s tees over at ript apparel. episode 4 : a new formula by ninjaink [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 9 : 36 am tagged with : breaking bad , television , tv .post-footer post shut up and take my money fashion 1 response » /.postdata /.title mar 24 2014 /.title-container that is exactly what i said when i saw this t-shirt over at ript apparel today ! go get your now ! who can pass up a futurama fry lego minifigure mashup ? not me ! only available 3/24/2014 so , yeah , shut up and take my money already will ya ! entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 8 : 17 am tagged with : futurama , science fiction , scifi , television , tv .post-footer post whoop it up with whoopi at wizard world philadelphia conventions 1 response » /.postdata /.title jan 14 2014 /.title-container the great and powerful oz … .er … whoopi will be at this year ’ s wizard world philadelphia. get your tickets now. academy award winner whoopi goldberg to attend wizard world philadelphia comic con oscar ® winner whoopi goldberg will make her wizard world debut at philadelphia comic con , june 20-21. with dozens of television and film credits , including “ the view , ” [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 1 : 56 pm tagged with : conventions , star trek , television , wizard world .post-footer post star trek : the art of juan ortiz exhibit news no responses » /.postdata /.title nov 12 2013 /.title-container paley center for media presents star trek : the art of juan ortiz special gallery exhibit november to january in beverly hills official los angeles opening wednesday , november 20 what : the paley center for media is partnering with cbs consumer products to present the los angeles premiere gallery exhibition of star trek : the art of juan ortiz. star trek : [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 4 : 38 pm tagged with : art , events , star trek , television .post-footer post doctor who christmas specials soundtracks music no responses » /.postdata /.title nov 12 2013 /.title-container silva screen records presents doctor who – the snowmen/the doctor , the widow and the wardrobe at one time christmas day in the us meant the yule log and it ’ s a wonderful life , a time for families to gather around the tv together. but in the modern era that mantle has now been taken by the [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 1 : 44 pm tagged with : bbc , doctor who , science fiction , scifi , scores , soundtracks , television .post-footer post doctor who series 7 – original tv soundtrack music no responses » /.postdata /.title nov 08 2013 /.title-container silva screen ’ s eighth doctor who soundtrack release since 2006. long awaited by the fans , series 7 has been uniquely made up of 13 self-contained stories and this 2 cd set offers a feast of new murray gold signature themes with music from each and every story. murray gold ’ s phenomenal output as a composer began close [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 1 : 25 pm tagged with : bbc , doctor who , science fiction , scifi , scores , soundtracks , television .post-footer post rok tv to bring us the monster channel news 1 response » /.postdata /.title nov 07 2013 /.title-container “ the monster channel ” partners with rok tv for multi-platform horror channel as a fan of old horror ( and scifi ) b-movies as well as emce toys ( love the retro mego lines ) i am rather thrilled about this news. i just wish it had a corresponding roku channel now ! ~ scifislacker.com fourth castle micromedia , best known for [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 3 : 15 pm tagged with : tv , vod .post-footer post transformers prime : beast hunters volume 1 comic books no responses » /.postdata /.title nov 02 2013 /.title-container from idw publishing comes another great collection of transformers comics with transformers prime : beast hunters volume 1 book description beast hunters ! they were there when cybertron fell — but what happened to the dinobots for the past few thousand years ? here ’ s a hint — grimlock and company haven ’ t been sitting around and relaxing ! the time is [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 3 : 47 pm tagged with : comics , graphic novels , idw publishing , transformers .post-footer post awesome inner workings of video games books no responses » /.postdata /.title oct 20 2013 /.title-container the awesome inner workings of video games by arie kaplan is published by lerner publications and is great for kids 10-14 ( as well as some of us older kids interested in the inner workings of video games too ) . book description gamers , beware — your video games can think for themselves ! ever wondered what ’ s inside the plastic of your video game [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 3 : 28 pm tagged with : art , books , video games .post-footer post robot chicken season 6 television no responses » /.postdata /.title oct 15 2013 /.title-container robot chicken is back at it with the recent release of their sixth ( yep sixth ) season on dvd and blu-ray. this series is still as much fun as it was at the beginning. go beyond the episodes with loads of featurettes found on both the dvds and blu-rays. emmy ® award-winning stop-motion parodies are back in [ ... read more ] entry .entry-container posted by scifislacker at 2 : 31 pm tagged with : blu-ray , dvds , television .post-footer post older entries page nav content main col widget start subscribe widget end widget start widget end widget start recent posts breaking bad t-shirts shut up and take my money whoop it up with whoopi at wizard world philadelphia star trek : the art of juan ortiz exhibit doctor who christmas specials soundtracks doctor who series 7 – original tv soundtrack rok tv to bring us the monster channel transformers prime : beast hunters volume 1 awesome inner workings of video games robot chicken season 6 widget end widget start pages scifi portal about scifislacker.com staff contests scifislacker.com contest rules widget end widget start categories books collectibles comic books contests conventions fashion movies music news scifislacker.com television toys & games video games xtras : comics & cartoons widget end widget start widget end widget start pinning the universe pinterest recent widget by jafaloo.com my pinterest badge by : jafaloo . for support visit : my pinterest badge widget end widget start tweets by @ scifislacker widget end widget start kindle deal of the day button embed code starts here button embed code ends here widget end widget start meta log in entries rss comments rss wordpress.org widget end /sidebar /container horizontal-outer-widgets-2 widget area widget start widget end widget start widget end /horizontal-outer-widgets-2 © 2000 - 2313 scifislacker.com suffusion theme by sayontan sinha 50 queries , 22mb in 4.937 seconds . /wrapper location footer
