navigation general info home blog articles & reviews links what is scifi 411 ? television the episode guides upcoming shows dvd release dates movies the movie guide movie release dates dvd release dates in print the rpg guide yourogl dvd pick of the week poll begin sparklit html code c a n c e l e d s h o w s which of these canceled sf series will you miss the most ? alias charmed invasion justice league unlimited night stalker surface threshold current results end sparklit html code quotes welcome to...scifi 411 ! welcome to scifi 411 , where you can find news on your favorite science fiction & fantasy television shows , movies , dvds , and rpgs . sitesearch google web scifi411.com sitesearch google recent updates & comments monday , september 24 , 2007 - sorry for the lack of updates. i 'm now writing for syfy portal and attending film school ( which is keeping me busy ) . i have big changes planned in the near future . friday , february 16 , 2007 - i 've been away for sometime working away at my column on paperback reader and tinkering with other things online. but look back soon for a " makeover " of the site . thursday , september 14 , 2006 - well you can read about my trip to dragon * con... here . i have also started the new yourogl blog over... here . the free rpg section ( added f20 ) and the episode guides ( the 4400 , blade : the series , battlestar galactica , & eureka ) . tuesday , august 22 , 2006 - sorry for the lack of updates folks. things have been very busy. you can check out my chicago-con trip ... here . i hope to play some major catch up in the next two weeks. i just posted another edition of the marx files ... here . later . friday , july 28 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added forever knight – the trilogy : part 3 ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated painkiller jane ; added devil ’ s advocate , stoner , & witch doctor ) . tuesday , july 25 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added dick tracy – the complete animated series , ghost busters : the animated series , & return to the planet of the apes – animated series ; moved ark ii , defenders of the earth – volume 1 , & joan of arcadia – the complete 2nd season ) and the episode guides ( ghost whisperer & jericho ) . friday , july 14 , 2006 - it ’ s stargate day folks ! tonight marks the premiere of stargate sg1 season 10 and stargate atlantis season 3 on the scifi channel. woohoo ! don ’ t forget that eureka premieres on the scifi channel this tuesday , july 18 . the dvd release dates ( added batman beyond – the complete 2nd season , justice league unlimited – season 1 , the munster : two-movie fright fest , she-ra : princess of power : season 1 - volume 1 , tales from the crypt – the complete 5th season , & ultraman : series 1 - volume 2 ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated aquaman/mercy reef & heroes ) . tuesday , july 11 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added dark shadows – the beginning : collection 1 , dungeons & dragons , & nightmares and dreamscapes ) and the episode guides ( blade : the series & hex ) . monday , july 03 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added dark shadows – bloopers & treasures , dark shadows – dvd collection 26 , doctor who – story # 087 : the hand of fear , doctor who – story # 140 : the mark of the rani , greg the bunny – the best of the film parodies , krypto the superdog – volume 2 , elvira 's movie macabre - count dracula 's great love , elvira 's movie macabre - devil 's wedding night , elvira 's movie macabre - doomsday machine , elvira 's movie macabre - frankenstein 's castle of freaks , elvira 's movie macabre - legacy of blood , & elvira 's movie macabre - werewolf of washington ) and the movie release dates ( added death race , doa : dead or alive , dragons of autumn twilight , & sex and death 101 ; moved wind chill ) . thursday , june 29 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added ghost hunters : season two – part 1 , ghost hunters : season two – part 2 , ghost hunters : the very best of season two , & harvey birdman : attorney at law – volume 2 ) and the episode guide ( heroes ) . friday , june 23 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added blackstar : the complete series , roar : the complete series , the space sentinels : the complete series/the freedom force : the complete series , & voltron : defender of the universe – set 1 ) and the movie release dates ( moved iron man ) . wednesday , june 21 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added buffy the vampire slayer : curse of the hellmouth , charmed – the complete 6th season , he-man and the masters of the universe : season 2 - volume 2 , mystery science theater 3000 – volume 10 , & twilight zone – the complete collection ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated aquaman/mercy reef & ultra ; added untitled warren ellis black comedy/science fiction project ) . wednesday , june 14 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added alf - season 4 , medium – the complete 2nd season , & teenage mutant ninja turtles - volume 5 ) and the episode guides ( the 4400 & blade ) . tuesday , june 6 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added battlestar galactica 2.5 & ghost whisperer : the complete 1st season ) , the episode guide ( lost ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated ultra ) . wednesday , may 31 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added charmed – the complete 6th season , mission : impossible – the complete 1st season , star trek : the animated series – the complete series , & super mario bros. super show ! – volume ) and the movie release dates ( moved superman returns ) . tuesday , may 23 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added masters of horror – dario argento : jenifer , masters of horror – john mcnaughton : haeckel ’ s tale , masters of horror – argento/mcnaughton 2-pack and medium – the complete 2nd season ; moved the tick – the belated 10th anniversary edition ) , the movie release dates ( added special & telepathy ) and the episode guides ( lost & stargate atlantis ) . thursday , may 18 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added 3rd rock from the sun – season 5 ) , the movie release dates ( moved the chronicles of narnia : prince caspian ) , the episode guides ( heroes & lost ) , and the upcoming tv shows ( added day break ; updated aquaman & jericho ) . tuesday , may 16 , 2006 - the movie release dates ( removed used guys ) and the episode guides ( angel , blade , & lost ) . monday , may 15 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( moved the tick ) , the episode guides ( invasion , lost , & surface ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated heroes & raines ) . friday , may 12 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added look up in the sky ) , the movie release dates ( moved the reaping , the visiting , & the wicker man ) , the episode guides ( dead zone & invasion ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated heroes & raines ) . thursday , may 11 , 2006 - the episode guides ( justice league unlimited & lost ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated aquaman & ultra ) . wednesday , may 10 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added doctor who – story # 013 : the web planet & doctor who – story # 054 : inferno ) and created the episode guides ( blade , eureka , & torchwood ) . friday , may 5 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added supernatural : the complete first season & ultraviolet ; moved invasion : the complete first season ) and the upcoming tv shows ( added blink & the bishop ; updated the prisoner ) . thursday , may 4 , 2006 - the movie release dates ( added the box ) and the episode guides ( lost & stargate sg-1 ) . wednesday , may 3 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added the brak show – volume 2 , farscape : starburst edition - season 4 vol 1 , fullmetal alchemist : vol. 9 - pain and lust , hologram man , the munsters – america ’ s first family of fright , sealab 2021 : the complete fourth season ; moved lost – the complete 2nd season – the extended experience ) and the movie release dates ( added the un-dead ) . monday , may 1 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added surface – the complete first season ; moved jack of all trades – the complete series & threshold – the complete series ) , the episode guide ( lost ) , and the ramblings of marx blog ( " survivor : the sf tv series edition - part 2 " ) . friday , april 28 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added alias – the complete 5th season & carnivale – the complete 2nd season ) and the upcoming tv shows ( added caprica , persons unknown , & snap ; updated motel man ) . thursday , april 27 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added flash gordon – the complete series , jack of all trades – the complete series , & lost – the complete 2nd season ) and the movie release dates ( added aliens vs. predator 2 , family time , star blazers , & star trek 11 ) . tuesday , april 25 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added 3rd rock from the sun - season 4 , andromeda : season 5 - collection 5 , the best of she-ra : princess of power , clawed - the legend of sasquatch , cowboy bebop remix 5 , dark shadows : dvd collection 25 , fright club , i dream of jeannie : the complete second season , king of kong island and other ape flicks , & she-ra : the secret of the sword ) . thursday , april 20 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added the pretender : the complete 4th season ) and the movie release dates ( added case 39 , the hunt , & larklight ; moved ghost rider ) . tuesday , april 18 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added amazing stories : the complete 1st season & the invisible man : the complete 2nd season ) and the episode guide ( invasion ) . monday , april 17 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added the omega factor : the complete series ) and the movie release dates ( added shadow puppets ) . friday , april 14 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added voyage to the bottom of the sea : season 1 - volume 2 ) , the movie release dates ( added the illusionist ) , and the episode guide ( supernatural ) . also , feel free to check out my new column the marx files at paperback reader . wednesday , april 12 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added tales from the crypt – the complete 4th season & the tick ) and the movie release dates ( added dragon tiger gate & wicked city ) . tuesday , april 11 , 2006 - the episode guides ( alias , lost , & smallville ) . monday , april 10 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added star trek : the klingon fan collective ) and the movie release dates ( added bubba nosferatu ) . friday , april 7 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added final destination 3 , the princess bride - the " buttercup edition " , & the princess bride - the " dread pirate edition ” ) and the movie release dates ( added fragile : a ghost story & heart shaped box ; moved 30 days of night , the fountain , & the grudge 2 ) . thursday , april 6 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( moved threshold – the complete series ) , the movie release dates ( added zoo ) , the episode guide ( smallville ) , the upcoming tv shows ( updated aquaman ) , and the ramblings of marx blog ( " the marx files " ) . wednesday , april 5 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added avatar : the last airbender : book 1 - volume 4 & the incredible hulk – the complete first season ) , the movie release dates ( added ripd , tonight he comes , & underdog ) , and the upcoming tv shows ( added jekyll ) . thursday , march 30 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added attack of the sabretooth , camp slaughter , caved in : prehistoric terror , the da vinci code : where it all began , the da vinci files , day the world ended/she creature , event horizon - special collector 's edition , fantastic children - vol. 1 , ghost stories : vol. 4 - senior screams , house on haunted hill/last man/the bat , mission impossible collector 's set , saga of viking women/teenage caveman , & tales of terror from tokyo the movie ) and the movie release dates ( added journey to the center of the earth ; moved harry potter and the order of the phoenix & his dark materials : the golden compass ) . wednesday , march 29 , 2006 - the movie release dates ( added the spiderwick chronicles ) and the episode guides ( charmed , justice league unlimited , & stargate sg-1 ) . tuesday , march 28 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added the adventures of brisco county jr. – the complete series & the man from u.n.c.l.e. – season 1 ) , the movie release dates ( added hawaiian dick ) , and the upcoming tv shows ( added life on mars ) . friday , march 24 , 2006 - the movie release dates ( added push ) and the upcoming tv shows ( added firebrand & masters of science fiction ; updated blade & torchwood ) . thursday , march 23 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added red dwarf : series 8 with limited edition “ scutter toy ” ) and the movie release dates ( added the stars my destination ) . wednesday , march 22 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added dead zone – the complete 4th season & swarmed ) and the free rpg section ( added grim tales srd , hell comes to frogtown--the rpg , & perfect 20 ) . tuesday , march 21 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added aquamarine , battlestar galactica 2.5 , the hills have eyes , the tomorrow people – set 3 , & underworld : evolution ) , the movie release dates ( moved the chronicles of narnia : prince caspian , my super ex-girlfriend , pan 's labyrinth , pirates of the caribbean 3 , superhero ! , & teenage mutant ninja turtles ) and the ramblings of marx blog ( " the doctor ( who ) is in the house " ) . monday , march 20 , 2006 - oops. i 'm not sure how it happened , but i lost a bunch of data. as you can probably tell , everything after march 10 ( at least on this page ) was lost. let me know if you see any missing data on any of the other pages. i 'll try to get everything updated as soon as possible . friday , march 10 , 2006 - the upcoming tv shows ( updated heroes , jericho & ultra ) and the ramblings of marx blog ( " survivor : the sf tv series edition " ) . thursday , march 9 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added afro samurai , invasion – the complete 1st season , mystery science theater 3000 , & superman – brainiac returns ; moved medium – the complete 1st season ) and the episode guide ( battlestar galactica ) . wednesday , march 8 , 2006 - the episode guides ( the 4400 , charmed , & ghost whisperer ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated ultra ) . friday , march 3 , 2006 - the movie release dates ( added weirdsville ; moved evan almighty ) and the upcoming tv shows ( updated aquaman/mercy reef & jericho ) . wednesday , march 1 , 2006 - the dvd release dates ( added bloodrayne , samurai jack : the complete seasons 1-3 , & riddick trilogy ) , the movie release dates ( added batman 2 , superhero ! , & teenage mutant ninja turtles ; moved battle angel , harry potter and the order of the phoenix , & sin city 2 ) , and the upcoming tv shows ( updated raines ) . [ previous updates ] scifi 411 has been on the web since december 15 , 2003 . note : when you send us an email , please do not include an attachment without talking to us first. all emails with unknown attachments will be deleted . begin code amber ticker code . copyrights and trademarks for the film and related entertainment properties mentioned herein are held by the respective owners of said properties . site design and all text copyright © marx pyle scifi 411 logo created by brian bolin . &copy marx pyle
