header start home comics art gallery stories weblog about header end body start do not delete subheader start home subheader end column 1 start do not delete sponsored advertisements 3500ad chapter 7 released saturday , 21 june 2014 it 's out. 3500ad chapter 7 has been released. you can read it here . new nonfiction story released about how i lost everything.. . friday , 09 august 2013 ...to a con artist. it 's the account of a traumatic event in my life that happened during my college years. but enough chit chat. if you 've the stomach for a story like this , read it here , in the stories area . 3500ad chapter 6 released thursday , 18 april 2013 at long last , 3500ad chapter 6 has been released ! you can read it here. there is also a short preview of chapter 7 , which can be found here. enjoy ! merry christmas 2012 tuesday , 25 december 2012 wishing everyone a merry christmas for 2012 and an awesome new year ! 3500ad chapter 5 released wednesday , 23 may 2012 well , well , well , this certainly is a first for me. if not a first , then it has n't happened in quite a while. an actual timely update ! 3500ad chapter 5 has been liberated from the deep , dark dungeons of my consciousness. it can be found here , in the stories section . let 's hope that this new trend of timely updates continues ! only time will tell. anyway , enjoy ! 3500ad chapter 4 released tuesday , 08 may 2012 update : 3500ad chapter 4 has finally been released from captivity. captivity in my head that is. it can be found here , in the stories section . i 've also been working on chapter 5 , and i 'm about halfway or so through it. it should be ready shortly . i 've actually been working full time for a year now , although not in my preferred capacity. hopefully in a few more years ( sooner , i hope ) i 'll have saved up enough money to start a multimedia company. i have all these projects i want to work on , but apparently i wo n't be able to complete them by myself. i 'll have to hire some staff to get these things done ! wish me luck , everyone ! titanium knights episode iii updated saturday , 30 october 2010 titanium knights episode iii has been updated. ( it 's about time , i know. ) it 's been a long summer , but i enjoyed it. i got lots of extra work. now that fall is here , and things at work are slowing down a bit , i have had more time to work on titanium knights episode 3 . i finally got the " comic engine " interface set up so the comic is easier to read. i 'll probably still have to do some more tweaking depending on the feedback i receive . i decided to put titanium knights episode 3 directly on the comics page for easier access to readers. it can still be found in its original location here as well , for those who actually enjoy drilling down through menus . as a bonus , all the comic pages have been redone. i added a title page , and improved the intro story. i 'm much happier with the improvements. i 'm actually working on the next two pages now , and hopefully they 'll be done soon . thanks for reading. everyone have a great halloween ! 3500ad chapter 3 published ! wednesday , 10 march 2010 hello all ! in today 's update , i am proud to announce that chapter 3 of 3500ad has been published in the stories section . yes , it has been a long time in coming , but it 's finally here. i hope you enjoy it ! i am currently working on future chapters , but not necessarily in sequential order. so i ca n't currently promise when the next chapter will be released. also , please check out chapters 1 and 2 of 3500ad. the story will make much more sense if you do ! the links are below : 3500ad chapter 1 3500ad chapter 2 3500ad chapter 3 please enjoy. thank you for visiting my web site. take care ! titanium knights character profiles added wednesday , 26 august 2009 hello all ! just a quick update to inform everyone that titanium knights character profiles have been added. this is just the beginning , of course. more profiles will be added as new characters appear in the story. the profiles can be found here : titanium knights character profiles take care everyone , and enjoy ! -steve happy holidays for 2008 ! thursday , 25 december 2008 hello all ! i want to thank you for visiting titaniumknights.net , and to wish everyone a merry christmas and a happy new year ! happy holidays to one and all ! -steve art gallery expanded tuesday , 04 november 2008 hello all ! the art gallery section has been expanded with an additional page - art gallery 4 . it includes more artwork from my high school and college days. i am also pleased to announce that titaniumknights.com now leads to titaniumknights.net ! thanks for reading ! -steve do n't worry , i 'm still here ! thursday , 07 february 2008 i have n't gone anywhere ! lots of things are still in the works. what they say about multitasking is very true - you 'd be done significantly faster if you did each project individually than if you juggled multiple projects. multitasking creates the illusion of getting more work done faster. oh well. i have many projects that i want to publish simultaneously , so multitasking fits my goals anyhow ! i also get bored working on one thing for too long anyway , so i like to break things up a bit... oh , i almost forgot ! i 'm posting this update to let interested parties know that 3500ad part 2 is out ! you 'll find it in the stories section. or , just click here . i hope you all enjoy it ! later ! -steve site update ! wednesday , 10 october 2007 hello all ! we finally have a site update. the title header has been modified to be filled with artwork , and different artwork has been added to the mix. i also changed the blog design so that it integrates better with the site , yet still works well by itself. the site has been tested to work in firefox , internet explorer 6 , and internet explorer 7. as for the comics ? you want new pages right ? yes , they have been a long time in coming , and there is a good reason for that. i ca n't get into the reasons why right now , aside from the fact that i am obsessed with producing quality work. let 's just say that when i put up some new comic pages , you will get much more than you anticipated. take care ! -steve technical difficulties.. . thursday , 30 august 2007 hello everyone. we 've had some technical issues with the site for the last couple of days , but as you can see , we are back ! our content is being restored as i type this. any news of our demise has been greatly exaggerated ! for the moment , i leave you with this saying : " yes , steel is stronger and harder than titanium. a hardened steel blade can cut through a titanium blade with ease. however... after all is said and done , after the battle 's won , even the mighty stainless steel has been fatigued , corrupted , and corroded - rusted away to mere nothingness. yet humble titanium remains , standing tall , shining and bright , free of corrosion , uncorruptible. that is titanium 's true power - the ability to endure to the end , and to resist the evil of corruption. such is truly a strength that lasts. " titanium knights episode iii updated tuesday , 27 march 2007 actually , many things have been updated. i finally redid the third page to properly fit the story. you can read more about that on my blog page here . i am working on the next page so do n't fret ! good things come to those who wait. i want to make sure this comic is the best it can be , and since this site currently has few visitors , i find it to be the perfect opportunity to take my time and do it right ! i am sure that as i complete more pages , more visitors will come. build it , and they will come... titanium knights episode iii titanium knights episode 3 comic is up ! thursday , 15 march 2007 the titanium knights episode iii comic is live. only two pages so far , more to come. you can find it in the comics section under ( what else ? ) titanium knights. or just click the following link... titanium knights episode iii comic what happened to episodes i and ii ? i decided to work on them later since they are not as action packed as episode iii . more... site redesign science fiction story added tkcomics.com i officially started drawing again.. . we 've moved to a new host ! new items in art gallery titanium knights comic page.. . 3rd issue of high school comic 2nd issue of high school comic titanium knights website goes live column 1 end left column start main menu home comics art gallery stories weblog about contact us links left column end do not delete right column start sponsors project wonderful ad box loader end project wonderful ad box loader project wonderful ad box code end project wonderful ad box code quotes right column end do not delete body end footer start copyright © 1992-2014 steven shawn wexler. all rights reserved . footer end google analytics code google analytics code end
