scifispace – science fiction news & community for fans by fans science fiction news & more navigation scifispace home what ’ s new ? videos events forums shop join us about us members login directory activity profile account archives # access # header it ’ s time for san diego comic con ! july 24 , 2014 | filed under : conventions & events .entry-meta .entry-header yup , it ’ s that time of year already and san diego comic con starts today ! i swear one of these years i will be there in person , but until then , live streams are the next best thing , though interviews and videos also abound. here are the ones i know about so … .entry-summary .entry-container .post cast of star wars : episode vii announced april 29 , 2014 | filed under : movie news .entry-meta .entry-header the next star wars saga to be helmed by j.j. abrams has officially announced it ’ s cast. most of them are unknowns , though i am happy to see original stars officially in. actors john boyega , daisy ridley , adam driver , oscar isaac , andy serkis , domhnall gleeson , and max von sydow will join … .entry-summary .entry-container .post # slider it ’ s time for san diego comic con ! july 24 , 2014 | filed under : conventions & events .entry-meta .entry-header yup , it ’ s that time of year already and san diego comic con starts today ! i swear one of these years i will be there in person , but until then , live streams are the next best thing , though interviews and videos also abound. here are the ones i know about so … .entry-summary .post do we really need another dracula movie ? july 4 , 2014 | filed under : movie news .entry-meta .entry-header okay , so i admit i am a fan of the vampire genre and bram stoker ’ s original novel scared the you know what out of me when i first read it in 1981 ( i remember the year as we had recently moved to florida and my bedroom was on the opposite … .entry-summary .post abc goes back to the beginning of s.h.i.e.l.d . june 16 , 2014 | filed under : scifi tv .entry-meta .entry-header abc has given the go ahead to “ agent carter ” – a spin-off of “ captain america : the first avenger ” that will give us the origin story of the s.h.i.e.l.d. organization ( before it ’ s destroyed in captain america : the winter solder or rebuilt in “ agents of s.h.i.e.l.d. of course ) . hayley atwell will star … .entry-summary .post once upon a time getting “ frozen ” next season june 16 , 2014 | filed under : scifi tv .entry-meta .entry-header no , not in ice ( well , maybe not ! ) but by stars of the disney movie frozen coming to storybrooke. i admit , i haven ’ t seen frozen so when a woman in a blue and silver flowing dress emerged from the urn that hook and emma accidentally brought back from the past , i … .entry-summary .post cast of star wars : episode vii announced april 29 , 2014 | filed under : movie news .entry-meta .entry-header the next star wars saga to be helmed by j.j. abrams has officially announced it ’ s cast. most of them are unknowns , though i am happy to see original stars officially in. actors john boyega , daisy ridley , adam driver , oscar isaac , andy serkis , domhnall gleeson , and max von sydow will join … .entry-summary .post syfy channel to actually show sci-fi ? ? what a concept ! april 5 , 2014 | filed under : scifi tv .entry-meta .entry-header the syfy channel has finally figured out it ’ s supposed to show science fiction ! the network , which in recent years has shown mostly b-movies , reality shows and wrestling , is trying to get back to it ’ s roots and bring more quality science fiction to our televisions again. hopefully that doesn ’ t just mean … .entry-summary .post wil wheaton project coming to syfy april 5 , 2014 | filed under : scifi tv .entry-meta .entry-header the syfy channel has given the go ahead to 12 episodes of the wil wheaton project , a summer series highlighting the world of science fiction , genre-related entertainment and gaming. the 30 minute show will be like the entertainment tonight of science fiction beginning tuesday , may 27 on syfy channel. wheaton … .entry-summary .post young bruce wayne , others cast for fox ’ s gotham march 15 , 2014 | filed under : scifi tv .entry-meta .entry-header fox ’ s upcoming batman prequel series , gotham , is rounding out it ’ s cast most recently signing david mazouz , who played kiefer sutherland ’ s son in the short lived touch , as the young bruce wayne. young bruce is described as serious and soulful , relying on the guidance and protection of alfred pennyworth and james gordon. … .entry-summary .post hieroglyph set in ancient egypt from fox okay , so this one i just discovered and since you all probably know of my love of ancient egyptian art , i had … .entry-summary .post fox shows off gotham logo and gives details yes , dc fans , fox is trying to cash in on the comic book film biz by bringing us a series based in … .entry-summary .post read all articles → # posts-nav # content follow me .widget support our site : .widget news by category comics & anime commentary conventions & events gaming news movie news movie & media reviews trailers and clips other news scifi books book reviews scifi tv toys & collectibles .widget news by tag abc adam baldwin agents of shield auction avengers batman book review canceled cbs comic-con convention dc comics disney doctor who dracula firefly fox gina torres gotham hbo into darkness jj abrams joss whedon lucasfilm marvel matt smith movie movie review movies movie trailer nathan fillion nbc once upon a time sdcc spock star trek star wars superman syfy channel the cw true blood tv tv series vampire vampires .widget cool stuff banner from http : //www.labeshops.com/ start banner from http : //www.labeshops.com/ end .widget # sidebar-left # content-sidebar-wrap video of the week .widget tweets by @ scifispace .widget around the web .widget scifispace on facebook .widget # sidebar-right # container about scifispace.com are you a science fiction fan ? do you like to go to conventions , watch science fiction movies , read fantasy books , watch tv shows , play role-play games like dungeons and dragons or vampire : the masquerade , video , or collectible card games , collect science fiction toys and collectibles ? then you belong here ! scifispace.com has been bringing you sci-fi news from around the world since 1998. join us ! google + .widget support scifispace.com .widget follow me .widget who ’ s online there are no users currently online .widget # footer-area © 2014 scifispace - science fiction news & community for fans by fans # copyright # footer # wrapper generated in 1.096 seconds. ( 96 q ) skip to toolbar wordpress.org documentation support forums feedback log in register wp_footer start of amazon publisher studio loader do not modify the following code ! end of amazon publisher studio loader
