tweet follow @ warworlder home books comics contact documents film & tv gallery links mars music news radio shop timeline facebook badge start facebook badge end the war of the worlds by h.g. wells this website began as a focal point for my interest in the war of the worlds radio broadcast of 1938 , the infamous event that saw americans apparently gripped by panic as fictional martian invaders devastated the new jersey countryside. but h.g. wells ' seminal science fiction novel has been re-imagined many times. in books , on television and at the movies , and even in comics such as killraven and musicals like jeff wayne 's war of the worlds , its extraordinary influence has resonated across the world and the years , most prominently in the 2005 war of the worlds remake by steven spielberg and tom cruise . learn more now at the war of the worlds invasion , where you will find dozens of in-depth articles and reviews . john gosling lead articles the orson welles broadcast on the evening of october 30th 1938 , orson welles and the players of his mercury theatre were preparing to broadcast the latest in their series of weekly literary adaptations. the halloween production of h.g.wells ' the war of the worlds should have been no different to any that had gone before , but before the hour was up , welles would find himself at the centre of a perfect storm of controversy. what should have been a simple if innovative retelling of a tale of alien invasion had triggered what has been called one of the first great mass panics of the modern media age. read more about the orson welles war of the worlds broadcast . books about mars the war of the worlds is a book that has far exceeded its expected shelf-life. the invasion has been re-imagined so many times over the years and exerted such an influence on the genre that it is hard to imagine that science fiction would be quite the same without it. writers such as ray bradbury in the martian chronicles have gone to mars in search of martians , others have brought the martians here , in novels such as robert heinlein 's stranger in a strange land . even sherlock holmes has locked horns with the martians in sherlock holmes ' war of the worlds , but the common thread is a fasination with a planet that has in equal measure , forever tantilised and terrified human minds. read more about the war of the worlds and the many books it has inspired . comics about mars do n't turn your nose up at comics. some of the most outstanding visions of mars have been achieved in the pages of comic books. comic books go where novelists fear to tread and confront taboos that the mere written word can not do justice to. in the league of extraordinary gentlemen , alan moore imagined a victorian england where the greats of romantic fiction fought side by side against the aliens , and roy thomas unleashed a modern day hero against a second martian invasion within the pages of killraven. and these are just two of the great comic books about mars and martians , waiting to be discovered. read more about martian comic books . film and tv about mars george pal was the first director to bring the war of the worlds to the big screen in 1953 and in 2005 steven spielberg and tom cruise re-imagined the invasion with a massive budget that brought the tripods vividly to life for the first time. but the war of the worlds has also graced our television screens and been the subject of mumerous documentaries and dramas . did you know that george pal contemplated a tv series in which humans would pursue the alien threat into space , and that the orson welles radio broadcast has been referenced many times in film and tv , even by woody allen and in the simpsons ? read more about the war of the worlds in film and tv . amazon.com widgets newly added.. . books 2010 the japanese devil fish girl and other unnatural attractions by robert rankin. a very weird and wonderful spoof sequel to the war of the worlds . comics 2011 heavy metal , war of the worlds goliath : summer special. an entire issue of heavy metal magazine devoted to the war of the worlds . film and tv 1946 kitty kornered . porky the pig fights a band of mischievous cats who re-enact the war of the worlds radio broadcast to scare him . music 2006 the war of the worlds by jeff wayne . big stage version of the classic record that has toured the uk to great acclaim . radio 1968 wkbw war of the worlds. a buffalo radio station creates a minor panic with an updated version of the orson welles war of the worlds broadcast . tweets by @ warworlder grovers mill prints for sale only a limited number left. this wonderful print depicts a grovers mill war of the worlds image inspired from the 1938 broadcast. order your grovers mill print direct from the artist robert hummel . martian news links open to mars times , the news blog of the war of the worlds invasion . click for " mars times " . by feed digest home - books - comics - film - gallery - links - mars - music - news - radio - shop - timeline about - advertise - contact - privacy
