728x90 home goes here the # 1 independent movie & tv news website sr exclusives movie news movie trailers movie reviews tv news podcasts currently hot topics : guardians of the galaxy | star wars 7 | inhumans movie | teenage mutant ninja turtles | batman vs superman | 8 great potential 'justice league ' movie villains we select 8 great dc comics villains that viable candidates for the upcoming 'justice league ' movie . marvel 's 'inhumans ' is coming marvel studios is reportedly ready to present its 'inhumans ' screenplay to potential directors. could it hit theaters in 2017 ? r.i.p. robin williams legendary actor robin williams has been found dead in his marin country , ca home of an apparent suicide . teenage mutant ninja turtles – sr underground ep. 156 we review 'teenage mutant ninja turtles ' and discuss the 'batman v superman ' release date change as well as which female hero should get a 'spider-man ' spin-off , & more ! 'tmnt 2 ' is coming in 2016 paramount 's 'teenage mutant ninja turtles ' reboot is getting a sequel in 2016 , announced in the wake of its big opening weekend . movie news tv news movie trailers movie reviews game news latest news ‘ texas chainsaw massacre ’ origins film ‘ leatherface ’ gets a writer the newest entry in the ‘ texas chainsaw massacre ’ series has a new title , as well as a screenwriter to carry on leatherface ’ s big screen legend . by andy crump | 1 min ago no comments ‘ bad boys 3 ′ confirmed by martin lawrence ‘ bad boys 3 ′ is entering production according to franchise star martin lawrence . by kofi outlaw | 27 mins ago 2 comments ‘ legends ’ series premiere review sean bean goes into deep cover to fight off domestic terrorists in the series premiere of tnt ’ s ‘ legends. ’ by jason tabrys | 13 hours ago 9 comments ‘ the bridge ’ : business is not just business the effects of fausto galvan ’ s revenge schemes are felt by those working for the cartel , as well as those working against it in ‘ the bridge ’ season 2 , episode 6 : ‘ harvest of souls. ’ by kevin yeoman | 13 hours ago 1 comment ‘ arrow ’ showrunner teases upcoming episode ; new ‘ flash ’ story details showrunners marc guggenheim and greg berlanti reveal details about ‘ arrow ’ season 3 and ‘ the flash. ’ by sarah moran | 14 hours ago 17 comments ‘ game of thrones ’ ending figured out by some fans george r. r. martin , author of the books on which ‘ game of thrones ’ is based , said that fans have figured out the ending to his series . by molly freeman | 14 hours ago 36 comments will we see kryptonite in ‘ batman v superman ’ ? a new rumor suggests kryptonite could be in ‘ batman v superman : dawn of justice. ’ how might the man of steel ’ s weakness fit into the plot ? by ben kendrick | 16 hours ago 75 comments ‘ power rangers ’ movie reboot gets july 2016 release date lionsgate and saban announce that their ‘ power rangers ’ movie reboot is coming to theaters july 22 , 2016 . by rob keyes | 17 hours ago 39 comments ‘ let ’ s be cops ’ review let ’ s be cops tries to offer coming-of-age gravitas , action movie thrills and comedic slapstick , but never excels at any one of them . by kofi outlaw | 17 hours ago 5 comments ‘ the leftovers ’ renewed for season 2 hbo has renewed its damon lindelof-created dramatic series ‘ the leftovers ’ for a second season . by robert yaniz jr. | 19 hours ago 17 comments sr geek picks : conan and fallon ’ s robin williams tributes , fifty shades of frozen & more conan o ’ brien and jimmy fallon pay tribute to robin williams ; honest expendables trailer ; a tmnt venn diagram ; fifty shades of frozen – and more ! by justin vactor | 20 hours ago 5 comments ‘ sinister 2 ′ casts its leads ; new plot details revealed ‘ sinister 2 ′ will star shannyn sossamon ( a knight ’ s tale ) as the new lead and see james ransone reprise his role as deputy so-and-so . by h. shaw-williams | 21 hours ago 5 comments 8 great ‘ justice league ’ movie villain candidates we select 8 great dc comics villains that viable candidates for the upcoming ‘ justice league ’ movie . by kofi outlaw | 22 hours ago 115 comments new release dates : ‘ man from u.n.c.l.e. ’ , ‘ american sniper ’ & more warner bros. moves ‘ the man from u.n.c.l.e. ’ to summer 2015 , clint eastwood ’ s ‘ american sniper ’ gets a release date , and more ! by sandy schaefer | 1 day ago 11 comments tom hiddleston eyed for lead role in ‘ ben-hur ’ timur bekmambetov ’ s ‘ ben-hur ’ could star tom hiddleston ( the avengers ) in the lead role , according to a new casting report . by h. shaw-williams | 1 day ago 17 comments open discussion – august 13 , 2014 here ’ s your chance to choose the topics in our regularly scheduled open discussion post – august 13 , 2014 . by paul young | 1 day ago 71 comments ‘ teenage mutant ninja turtles ’ alternate character designs revealed concept illustrator kelton cram ’ s ‘ teenage mutant ninja turtles ’ artwork reveals alternate designs for the turtles and shredder in the movie reboot . by sandy schaefer | 1 day ago 14 comments more news 300x250 home goes here get daily email updates begin mailchimp signup form begin mailchimp signup form end mc_embed_signup latest podcast today ’ s hot stories power rangers movie coming july 2016 marvel 's 'inhumans ' is coming marvel is n't planning a howard the duck movie wb developing 2 ‘ aquaman ' movie scripts 8 great potential 'justice league ' movie villains 'maggie ' images start ad swap < script type = " text/javascript " src = " /wp-content/themes/live/js/swapads.js " > < /script > end ad swap upcoming movies batman vs superman captain america 2 dawn of the planet of the apes fast and furious 7 godzilla guardians of the galaxy interstellar james bond jurassic park 4 justice league mad max robocop robopocalypse star trek star wars teenage mutant ninja turtles the amazing spider-man 2 the avengers 2 the hobbit the hunger games transformers 4 x-men days of future past movie news movie trailers movie reviews tv news game news ‘ texas chainsaw massacre ’ origins film ‘ leatherface ’ gets a writer the newest entry in the ‘ texas chainsaw massacre ’ series has a new title , as well as a screenwriter to carry on leatherface ’ s big screen legend . by andy crump | 1 min ago no comments ‘ bad boys 3 ′ confirmed by martin lawrence ‘ bad boys 3 ′ is entering production according to franchise star martin lawrence . by kofi outlaw | 27 mins ago 2 comments will we see kryptonite in ‘ batman v superman ’ ? a new rumor suggests kryptonite could be in ‘ batman v superman : dawn of justice. ’ how might the man of steel ’ s weakness fit into the plot ? by ben kendrick | 16 hours ago 75 comments ‘ power rangers ’ movie reboot gets july 2016 release date lionsgate and saban announce that their ‘ power rangers ’ movie reboot is coming to theaters july 22 , 2016 . by rob keyes | 17 hours ago 39 comments sr geek picks : conan and fallon ’ s robin williams tributes , fifty shades of frozen & more conan o ’ brien and jimmy fallon pay tribute to robin williams ; honest expendables trailer ; a tmnt venn diagram ; fifty shades of frozen – and more ! by justin vactor | 20 hours ago 5 comments ‘ sinister 2 ′ casts its leads ; new plot details revealed ‘ sinister 2 ′ will star shannyn sossamon ( a knight ’ s tale ) as the new lead and see james ransone reprise his role as deputy so-and-so . by h. shaw-williams | 21 hours ago 5 comments more movie news tv news movie news movie trailers movie reviews game news ‘ legends ’ series premiere review sean bean goes into deep cover to fight off domestic terrorists in the series premiere of tnt ’ s ‘ legends. ’ by jason tabrys | 13 hours ago 9 comments ‘ the bridge ’ : business is not just business the effects of fausto galvan ’ s revenge schemes are felt by those working for the cartel , as well as those working against it in ‘ the bridge ’ season 2 , episode 6 : ‘ harvest of souls. ’ by kevin yeoman | 13 hours ago 1 comment ‘ arrow ’ showrunner teases upcoming episode ; new ‘ flash ’ story details showrunners marc guggenheim and greg berlanti reveal details about ‘ arrow ’ season 3 and ‘ the flash. ’ by sarah moran | 14 hours ago 17 comments ‘ game of thrones ’ ending figured out by some fans george r. r. martin , author of the books on which ‘ game of thrones ’ is based , said that fans have figured out the ending to his series . by molly freeman | 14 hours ago 36 comments ‘ the leftovers ’ renewed for season 2 hbo has renewed its damon lindelof-created dramatic series ‘ the leftovers ’ for a second season . by robert yaniz jr. | 19 hours ago 17 comments ‘ tyrant ’ : everybody ’ s got a plan barry and john tucker begin drafting plans to stage a coup in abbudin and pull jamal from the seat of power in ‘ tyrant ’ season 1 , episode 8 : ‘ meet the new boss. ’ by kevin yeoman | 2 days ago 2 comments more tv news movie reviews movie news movie trailers tv news gaming news let 's be cops batman : assault on arkham the hundred-foot journey into the storm tmnt get on up more movie reviews movie trailers movie news movie reviews tv news game trailers the maze runner ( featurette ) mortdecai ( teaser ) two night stand the book of life ( trailer # 2 ) the penguins of madagascar ( trailer # 2 ) the theory of everything more movie trailers © 2003-2014 screen rant , llc | about | contact us | privacy policy | copyright | archive plugin wp missed schedule 2013.1231.2013 active - tag 6707293c0218e2d8b7aa38d418ffa608 this site is patched which an important unfixed problem since wordpress 2.5 + to 3.9 + start chartbeat end chartbeat btf 728x90 ad swap end ad swap javascript tag // tag for network 5205 : intergi // website : screen rant // page : screenrant.home // placement : screenrant.home_skin ( 3130667 ) // created at : feb 27 , 2014 10 : 57 : 46 am end of javascript tag go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools start taboola end taboola slide in top follow buttons be social , follow us ! !
