start local google_ad_section_start ( weight = ignore ) click here for the site update log page : last change saturday , 28 july 2012 , at 07 : 41 gmt new.dropin goes here note ! the books links problems have finally been repaired , and you can again inspect or buy all editions of particular books. fine authors old & new : in a burst of catching up , i have added classic authors frank baker and stella benson , plus contemporary authors tod davies , michal ajvaz , samantha hunt , josh emmons , and walter moers . andy duncan has only one book published so far , but everyone sees a very bright future for this southern fantasist. lord dunsany is arguably the greatest fantasist ever. now you can see a complete bibliography of dunsany 's work arranged in several ways--by book , by story , by what is unique , and so on. email me donate forums search site site directory start temporary this site also has forums --why not take a look and even post to them ? life is short : have some fun ! end temporary great science-fiction & fantasy works science-fiction & fantasy literature : a critical list with discussions google_ad_section_end google_ad_section_start why yet another science-fiction and fantasy list site ? let 's face reality : for the civilized reader , too many--most--web sites about science-fiction or fantasy literature recall american bandstand : " uh , wull , dick , i give it a 86 'cause it had a good beat an ' yuh could dance to it. " what one might charitably call " naive enthusiasm " abounds . if your sensibilities suggest to you that eric eddison and ernest bramah have written better fantasy than piers anthony and katherine kurtz , or that cordwainer smith and m. john harrison have written better science fiction than robert heinlein and isaac asimov , this site should be of real interest to you ; if not , you are in the wrong place . no one disparages authors who lack greatness if they possess competence. but , while a cold spritzer is often welcome refreshment , when we go into a restaurant of quality and ask for the wine card , we do not expect to see gallo chablis or annie greensprings among the listings. this site seeks to be a wine card of science-fiction and fantasy literature . for long now the literati have scorned both science-fiction and fantasy books , when they have deigned to notice them at all ; sad to say , the responses from within the community of science-fiction and fantasy readers ( and writers ) almost invariably call to mind an old saying : " i can save myself from my enemies , but only god can save me from my friends. " another aim of this site is to be a place to which science-fiction and fantasy aficionados can fearlessly send intelligent , civilized readers not familiar with the field . so what have we here ? what we have here is a site dedicated to presenting works in the fields of science-fiction and fantasy--sometimes collectively called " speculative fiction " --that get high grades for literary quality without needing any bonus points just for being science fiction or fantasy. the books are judged as literature , not as " science-fiction books " or " fantasy books " . this is a big site , with a page total into the five-digit range. while most of those pages carry mechanical information about particular books and , in turn , particular editions of those books , and some duplicate the information on others but in a different arrangement , there is still a hard core of perhaps a quarter-thousand " basic " pages. a site so large needs a full page just to explain what 's where in a coherent way , and this site has such a page. but there are a few mechanical things you should know even before you get to that page , plus there are some things about this site 's raison d'etre that i would like to explain before you plunge in. so the very next page you should go on to--ignoring the site directory at the bottom of this page--is the welcome page linked just a little below . when first i set up this site , i wrote here if , as a result of this site existing , but one reader finds and enjoys but one book that that reader would likely otherwise not have come round to , i will feel satisfied that i have not labored completely in vain. the many kind emails and reviews since then have justified to me my labors , and encourage me to continue expanding the site. thank you all . where next ? click here to continue on to the welcome ( a page that further introduces and explains this site ) adsense : differs from include 'd versions ( only double-wide ) /adsense google_ad_section_end tail google_ad_section_start ( weight = ignore ) you loaded this page on thursday , 14 august 2014 , at 16 : 44 gmt it was last modified on thursday , 1 january 1970 , at 00 : 00 gmt " site mechanics " grey block search : site mechanics : search this site : sitesearch google custom search /sitesearch google ( the usual google search rules apply ) donate : paypal code : please consider making a ( to whom ? why ? how ? click here to find out. ) end paypal code end donate " directory " white block outer white site directory : the site 's front page outer blue ( essential one-time reading ) introductory material : inner blues welcome : a quick site overview and some mechanical details apologia : the criteria used to make these lists ( a long page , so also available in two parts for those with slow internet connections. ) · apologia : part 1 · apologia : part 2 site organization : what 's where , and why end outer blue outer tan ( the heart of the site ) the authors : inner tans author list ( just a lightly annotated list of the authors here--not the best place to start ) master authors/books list ( the centrum of this site , but a big page--there are alpha subpages available ) a | b | c | d | e | f | g | h | i | j | k | l | m | n | o | p | q | r | s | t | u | v | w | x | y | z specialty lists : several author " sub-lists " ( such as the 5-star greats ) author links : links to useful external pages or sites for each listed author more books : yet-unread candidate books by authors already in these lists other candidates : authors , and books , that--pending actual reading--seem likely candidates for these lists end outer tan outer green ( typically gotten to by author ) the books : inner greens all listed science fiction & fantasy books ( a long file to download ) preferred editions : for those books having such ( a work in progress ) the other books : all cited books not in the master fiction list , collected in one place overlooked gems of science fiction & fantasy : wonderful works sadly under-known light-hearted science-fiction & fantasy : there 's more than you might think religiously themed science fiction & fantasy : something the field handles wonderful well science fiction & fantasy for younger readers : a selection from these lists of appropriate works 100 great works of science fiction & fantasy : using an expansive definition of " works " " guilty pleasures " of science fiction & fantasy : sometimes even gourmets just want a big bag of potato chips end outer green outer red ( new , used--find any book , anywhere in the world ) about buying books from here : inner reds buying books new : · about buying books from amazon · searching for new books at any amazon division · international book-buying considerations buying books used : searching for used books anywhere in the world our speculative-fiction " general store " : the u.s.a . canada the u.k . germany france japan about the science-fiction book club : info & online signup end outer red outer grey ( often the most interesting part of any site ) miscellaneous topics & info : inner greys musings : an ever-growing collection of , yes , musings obiter dicta : collected miscellaneous " that other genre " : crime/mystery fiction science-fiction & fantasy art and illustration : online galleries of diverse works other sites : sites that have noticed this one the english language : a few thoughts on its modern rape scumware ! read this if nothing else whatever change log what was done when your host : a comically little about me donate : you can help support this site comments : some things said about this site by others end outer grey outer brown ( on- or off-topic , there 's a forum here for you ) the discussion forums on this site : inner brows the forums : the forums " front page " , with a menu of forums--or jump to one direct : notices important information from your host about these forums introductions where you can tell us who you are authors and their books for discussing authors currently listed on this site author suggestions for discussing authors not listed here , main list or " possibles " other media speculative fiction other than books about this site pats , pans , and queries everything else just keep it clean and non-commercial end outer brown " site info " olive block site info : this site is one of the owlcroft company family of web sites. please click on the link ( or the owl ) to see a menu of our other diverse user-friendly , helpful sites. like all our sites , this one is hosted at the highly regarded pair networks , whom we strongly recommend. we invite you to click on the pair link ( or their logo ) for more information on getting your site or sites hosted on a first-class service. all owlcroft systems run on ubuntu linux and we heartily recommend it to everyone--click on the link for more information. comments ? criticisms ? questions ? please , e-mail me by clicking here . ( or , if you can not email from your browser , send mail to webmaster @ greatsfandf.com ) all content copyright © 1999 - 2014 the owlcroft company . this web page is strictly compliant with the w3c ( world wide web consortium ) extensible hypertext markup language ( xhtml ) protocol v1.0 ( transitional ) . click on the logo below to test us ! so if your browser experiences any difficulties with this page ( or , really , even if it does n't seem to ) , just click on the logo below to find out all about ( and even get ) -- ( it 's free ! ) end " site info " olive block google_ad_section_end google analytics
