home for authors and publishers advertising contact about discussion forum interviews reviews official reviews authors review authors reader reviews older official reviews articles news stories series gallery movies games comics jani and the greater game by eric brown ( multiplicity # 1 ) aug 14th , 2014 · 0 comment jani and the greater game ( multiplicity # 1 ) is eric brown ’ s new novel , a steampunk adventure and departure from his usual sci-fi offerings. as a fan of brown ’ s work i approached this novel with some... thirteen bullets aug 13th , 2014 · 0 comment horror and westerns go well together , so why not add some aliens ? ... ur by stephen king aug 5th , 2014 · 0 comment ur by stephen king is a short novella , released in 2009 and coming... the incorruptibles by john hornor jacobs aug 2nd , 2014 · 3 comments the incorruptibles by john hornor jacobs published by gollancz , august... the art of fred gambino : dark shepherd jul 19th , 2014 · 0 comment the art of fred gambino : dark shepherd published by titan books , july... reviews fool ’ s assassin by robin hobb ( fitz and the fool trilogy # 1 ) aug 12th , 2014 · 1 comment after more than a decade and seven intervening novels , robin hobb returns to her best known and most beloved character : fitzchivalry farseer , ‘ star ’ ... the clown service by guy adams jul 30th , 2014 · 0 comment the clown service by guy adams published by del rey , july 2014 isbn : 978 0 091953 157 314 pages review by mark yon the clown service is a book that holds... zoo city by lauren beukes jul 26th , 2014 · 0 comment zoo city by lauren beukes ebook edition published 2010 by angry robot review by n. e. white . award-winning zoo city is lauren beukes second novel , and... terra ’ s world by mitch benn ( terra # 2 ) jul 17th , 2014 · 0 comment terra ’ s world ( terra # 2 ) is mitch benn ’ s follow up to his hugely enjoyable debut , terra. still focusing on the titular character of terra , terra ’ s... interviews interview with john hornor jacobs aug 12th , 2014 · 0 comment interview with john hornor jacobs hello john. thanks for joining us . happy to be here . you are just about to have your first novel published by gollancz , the... gail z. martin interview jul 10th , 2014 · 0 comment we have talked to gail z. martin about her latest release deadly curiosities . can you tell us a bit about deadly curiosities and what your fans can expect ? deadly... tom doyle interview jul 2nd , 2014 · 0 comment we have talked to tom doyle , author of american craftsmen . can you tell us a bit about american craftsmen and what we can expect ? american craftsmen is... interview : aj dalton jun 26th , 2014 · 0 comment questions for aj dalton hello adam. thanks for joining us . you ’ ve just had the third of your books in ‘ the chronicles of a cosmic warlord ’ series... what makes urban fantasy by gail z. martin if you want to get down to bare bones , what defines “ urban fantasy ” is the setting. by definition , it ’ s … .urban. often set in a big city , sometimes in a small town , the story also... why urban fantasy might sound like science fiction by tom doyle why do some readers think that my fantasy novel sounds like science fiction ? though my debut novel from... where writers don ’ t get their ideas – an article by a j dalton. where writers don ’ t get their ideas - an article by a j dalton ( www.ajdalton.eu ) ,... would you like steampunk or dystopia with that ? by jaleigh johnson ever since the mark of the dragonfly was released , one of my favorite things is seeing how people ( readers,... finding inspiration for a sf novel by jay posey i remember reading science-fiction books when i was a kid ( and as an adult ) and being amazed at the onslaught... reviews the midnight mayor by kate griffin ( matthew swift # 2 ) jul 9th , 2014 · 3 comments matthew swift is a sorcerer of the streets , killed and resurrected in his debut novel a madness of angels , he is now more than what he once was. at the... more » the high druid ’ s blade by terry brooks ( the defenders of shannara # 1 ) queen of the tearling by erika johansen the shadow throne by django wexler ( book two of the shadow campaigns ) mr mercedes by stephen king the three by sarah lotz the thousand names by django wexler ( book one of the shadow campaigns ) interviews interview with stephen hunt may 9th , 2014 · 0 comment uk cover 2014 interview with stephen hunt been looking forward to this one for a while ! here we interview author and website owner stephen hunt... more » christopher priest interview jaleigh johnson interview interview with brian mcclellan jay posey interview freya robertson interview james dashner interview news news : gollancz digital lineup at festival 2014 aug 8th , 2014 · 0 comment from gollancz : gollancz has just announced our digital panel line up for the gollancz festival ( 13th august 2014. ) we ’ ve still got a few secret events... more » excerpt from deadly curiosities by gail z. martin news : gollancz festival 2014 announced news : new douglas adams release to follow later 2014. news : locus award 2014 nominees announced news : 2014 arthur c clarke award winner announced news : retro hugo shortlist nominees 1939 / 2014 writing tips for wr … everyone — don ’ t start with boredom ! sep 25th , 2013 · 0 comment this was going to be another writing tips segment before i realized that the inspiration for posting it came from life. and that , in fact , this advice... more » tips for writers : the one-word sentence by christine amsden tips for writers : making magic believable by christine amsden myth busters , grammar edition : starting a sentence with and or but by christine amsden cauldron bubble , add leeks and celery field trip hard sf essentials for non-scientist authors online series pewtory the lesser bard part 39 – concluding pewtory the lesser bard may 7th , 2014 · 1 comment the final part of rob donovan ’ s free serialised story set in the same world of frindoth as his newly released book “ ritual of the stones ” . in... more » pewtory the lesser bard part 38 – take a bow pewtory the lesser bard part 37 – destiny pewtory the lesser bard part 36 – the performance pewtory the lesser bard part 35 – masker 's ball pewtory the lesser bard part 34 – the baron pewtory the lesser bard part 33 – bard kallum articles why i write urban fantasy by debbie johnson apr 24th , 2014 · 1 comment crime , violence and the crunch of broken glass beneath my feet : why being a scaredy-cat led me to write urban fantasy it ’ s night time. i ’ m in a forest.... more » what is epic fantasy by freya robertson article : the world of the boy with the porcelain blade by den patrick shakespeare system for helping authors figure out self-publishing by matthew mather has modern sci fi strayed too far from its roots ? hobbit 's 50 at 50 author guest post : joseph d'lacey on post-apocalytpic fiction rss googleplus twitter facebook e-mail updates sffworld recommend why urban fantasy might sound like science fiction by tom doyle why do some readers think that my fantasy novel sounds like science fiction ? though ... where writers don ’ t get their ideas - an article by a j dalton. where writers don ’ t get their ideas - an article by a j dalton ( www.ajdalton.eu ) , gollancz ... fold by charlotte ashley sffworld.com has a discussion forum where readers gather to talk about their favorite stories ... christopher priest interview last time we spoke it was on the release of your previous novel , the ... sffworld review of the year , 2013 part 1 : fantasy and horror books sffworld review of the year , 2013 so here we are again : our sffworld review of ... sponsors latest discussion forum topics recent posts jani and the greater game by eric brown ( multiplicity # 1 ) thirteen bullets fool ’ s assassin by robin hobb ( fitz and the fool trilogy # 1 ) interview with john hornor jacobs news : gollancz digital lineup at festival 2014 ur by stephen king the incorruptibles by john hornor jacobs the clown service by guy adams zoo city by lauren beukes the art of fred gambino : dark shepherd reader reviews last 100 all by author a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z home uncategorized interviews news articles reviews online series stories © 2014 sffworld . all rights reserved. rss - about - privacy statement - terms of service
