which fantasy/scifi character are you ? to take the test , select an answer for each of the questions below , then click score results . there are no right or wrong answers , merely virtues and traits you most adhere to . you will then be matched with the fantasy or science fiction character that you have the most in common with . people turn to you for advice : rarely or never . sometimes , but usually just my close friends . frequently , sometimes even acquaintances . you are __________ that there is an afterlife . uncertain pretty sure doubtful your friends would describe you as : sensitive and caring . calculating and rational . level-headed and easy-going . you would rather recharge by : doing something alone , like reading a book . doing something with others , like attending a party . you try to be guided and ruled by your : thoughts and logic . feelings and sentiments . your beliefs are best described as : you have faith in a higher power and/or supernatural phenomena . you prefer dealing with the down-to-earth realities of this world . you do n't worship regularly , but feel attuned with your own spirituality . you are only concerned with what can be scientifically explained . the only way to get something done right is to do it yourself . i agree . i disagree . in a criminal justice system , it would be preferable to : let a guilty person go free . convict an innocent person . when assigned to a group project you are more likely to : work wherever it is needed most , as long as the task gets done . hang back and try to get by with minimal effort . assume a leadership position to ensure work is coordinated efficiently . it would make you happier doing : whatever is the greatest benefit to society . whatever gets me ahead in life . if killing your best friend would make you immortal , would you do it ? it 's somewhat tempting , but no thanks . no way . i 'm a little ashamed to admit it , but probably yes . you are more likely to enjoy : a personal discussion of feelings . a sophisticated philosophical debate . if you could rig the next big election so that your candidate of choice came out on top , would you ? yes , it would help turn things around . no , that 's no way to foster a free society . you are on a jury and are offered a large bribe. do you : refuse the bribe in favor of your generous jury duty pay . accept the bribe. everyone has their price , including me . accept the bribe , but only if you would have decided that way anyway. no harm done !
