- raichel le goff = raichel le goff end header raichel ' s art history - lectures and articles with the art historian dr. raichel le goff - if error - loading.. . ajax search api and stylesheet // note : if you are already using the ajax search api , then do not include it // or its stylesheet again video bar code and stylesheet lectures and articles with the art historian dr. raichel le goff , bahons , mst ( oxon ) , phdclassics after graduating from the prestigious courtauld institute , london university , raichel has had an inter-disciplinary career in the humanities. with a postgraduate degree in history from oxford , having studied under the renaissance scholar martin kemp , raichel went on to complete a phd in classics. her thesis was on the extraordinary book on art written in the 3rd century ad by philostratus the elder. the thesis traced the way artists from 1500 onward interpreted the ekphrasis and converted philostratus ’ text into paintings. after living in europe since her teen years , raichel returned to australia and has lectured on the history and theory of art and architecture for a number of years. raichel is currently postdoctoral research associate and lecturer at the school of architecture and built environment , university of newcastle , nsw australia . imageready slices ( january2004.jpg ) history of art a selection of dr. raichel le goff published articles . since 1992 imageready slices ( january2004.jpg ) imageready slices ( january2004.jpg ) pre-20th century art the art market art news museum news art research art research : a question of iconography cecco del caravaggio painting difficult to decipher a newly discovered painting by giulio romano joseph reveals his dreams to his brothers , afrter raphael paolo de matteis : provenance found pan and syrinx , a painting with an interesting past art and the view in 17th century italy agostino carracci as teacher venetian portraiture 1475-1575 the so-called belle donne portraits re-creating antiquity in the renaissance alfonso d'este 's camerino d'alabastro in ferrara dolce 's " l'aretino ' and venetian art theory ' l'aretino ' was published in 1557 by ludovico dolce a look at eugene fromentin 's les ma î tres d'autrefois ( 1876 ) travelogue by french artist giotto and filippino lippi paint the same subject the raising of drusiana : in the perruzi and strozzi chapels , florence a look at huizinga 's ' the waning of the middle ages ' 1924 text examines sterility of the imagination in middle ages functions of pompeii 's mythological paintings fresco cycles and the pompeiian viewer the heritage of apelles seeking an answer to pollaiuolo 's battle of the nudes the emergence of the venetian portrait did it all begin with antonella da messina ? the sala del'udienze of cosimo i , duke of tuscany frescoes by salviati in florence 's palazzo vecchio the villa of the mysteries at pompeii the rituals of dionysus and the legacy of greece have you seen these frescoes ? the hunt for salviati 's missing lunettes , florence reading the parthenon what we can do is look at the unwritten evidence... . 20th century and contemporary art : a voyage around kounellis jiannis kounellis centro per l'art contemporanea luigi pecci , prato , italy 9th june - 9th september 2001 sol le witt : retrospective sf moma , exhibition , san francisco 2000 beyond the pleasure principle - sarah lucas at the freud museum britart personality adorns sigmund freud 's house with sexy sculpture bernard buffet obituary of french artist , suicide 1999 pierre bonnard introduction to exhibition at martigny , switzerland , 1999 tribute to luis bunuel in sculpture angel orensanz creates sculpture to the famous film director , madrid 2001 francesco clemente introduction to the exhibition of this italian-born new york artist at the guggenheim , bilbao. 2000 lovis corinth 's art : surviving berlin introduction to the 1999 exhbition in madrid of this artist termed 'degenerate ' by the nazis cracking art : italy 's plastic fantastics review of 'musicarte ' exhibition in florence , dec. 2000 john currin a giant step for civilization ! cranach/john currin renaissance portraits news end pagecontent end left raichel le goff raichel ' s art history - lectures and articles with the art historian dr. raichel le goff navigation mistresses and courtesans venetion portraiture art books canberra 2010 - in the shadows of giants cecco del caravaggio sir francis haskell art in sydney november 2010 art history research tool the houses of pompeii a newly discovered painting by giulio romano zaha hadid oxford university pan and syrinx by paolo de matteis site info raichel le goff articles raichel le goff photo gallery about us sitemap privacy policy terms of service copyright 2014 | www.raichel.org | contact me | renaissance portraits end bar end footer end container end page
