instancebegin template = " /themanwhomadevermeers/the man who made vermeers website/templates/template.dwt " codeoutsidehtmlislocked = " false " instancebegineditable name = " left_panel_news " • oscar-winning director errol morris interviews jonathan lopez at the nytimes.com • the philadelphia inquirer interviews jonathan lopez about a recent andrew wyeth forgery case . instanceendeditable instancebegineditable name = " left_panel_spare " jonathan lopez in the blogs and on the web : errol morris - zoom - at nytimes.com philly.com how stuff works alberti 's window terry teachout - commentary 15 bytes gawker.com word zoo drunkenfist.com m.a.d. books bedford square theessentialvermeer.com culture making 2nd sex fauna : flowers & love spezzella failuremag.com kottke.org dubious quality summer moon galleycat wall street pit tef fund report thecompulsivereader.com instanceendeditable instancebegineditable name = " centre_area " jonathan lopez is an american writer and art historian. born in 1969 in new york city , he was educated there and at harvard . he writes about art and culture for the wall street journal and serves on the editorial board of art & antiques . his book , the man who made vermeers , is a biography of the art forger han van meegeren . jonathan is a long-time contributor to london-based apollo : the international magazine of the arts , where he publishes exhibition reviews , features , and scholarly work. his noted december 2007 apollo article " gross false pretences " related the details of an acrimonious 1908 dispute between the art dealer leo nardus and the wealthy industrialist p. a. b. widener of philadelphia. upon publication , " gross false pretences " was praised in the guardian ( uk ) and has since been cited widely in the academic literature on the history of collecting . jonathan has also published with the associated press , the boston globe , us news & world report , the international herald tribune , artnews , the magazine antiques , and the dutch newsweekly de groene amsterdammer . he is a member of the national book critics circle ( nbcc ) and of the us section of the international association of art critics ( aica-usa ) . the man who made vermeers , is based on three years of archival research conducted in five nations , as well as interviews with the descendents of han van meegeren 's partners in crime. the book has received extensive attention in the press , including from the new yorker 's peter schjeldahl , who cited the narrative for its " profoundly researched , focused , absorbing depth. " the man who made vermeers was a finalist for the national award for arts writing and for the 2009 edgar allan poe award ( " the edgar " ) for the year 's best non-fiction crime book - called the " fact-crime " category by the mystery writers of america , the organization that sponsors the edgar awards . jonathan has lectured at the metropolitan museum of art , new york ; the national gallery of art , washington , d.c. ; and the museum of fine arts , boston , among other institutions. his next book , in the light of god , will be a wide-ranging study of vincent van gogh , emphasizing the role of faith , evangelism , and the cultural underpinnings of the dutch reformed church in the artist 's life and work . jonathan lives in manhattan with his wife , who is a professor of art history , and their dog , charley , who is a yellow labrador retriever . charley at 4 months . video cleveland museum of art : november 11 , 2009 jonathan lopez discusses vermeer and old master forgery • • • instanceendeditable instancebegineditable name = " right_panel_spare " podcast : jonathan lopez discusses " the man who made vermeers " with faith middleton on wnpr , connecticut public radio . podcast : jonathan lopez discusses " the man who made vermeers " on abc radio national 's " late night live " with phillip adams . podcast : jonathan lopez discusses vermeer and old master forgery at the national gallery of art , washington , as part of the nga 's " notable lecture " series . • • • jonathan lopez in the news : new york times chicago tribune new york sun l.a. times new yorker houston chronicle salon brooklyn rail washington times nrc handelsblad newark star-ledger art & antiques caa reviews virginia quarterly review burlington magazine artnews new york review of books instanceendeditable © 2009 jonathan lopez • web design by adrian kinloch instanceend
