for non-visual user agents : skip to main content . # # # # # header # # # # # navigation : home | news | download | publications | contact us # # # # # main copy # # # # # page body computing with htcondor ™ our goal is to develop , implement , deploy , and evaluate mechanisms and policies that support high throughput computing ( htc ) on large collections of distributively owned computing resources. guided by both the technological and sociological challenges of such a computing environment , the center for high throughput computing at uw-madison has been building the open source htcondor distributed computing software ( pronounced " aitch-tee-condor " ) and related technologies to enable scientists and engineers to increase their computing throughput . note : the htcondor software was known as 'condor ' from 1988 until its name changed in 2012 . if you are looking for phoenix software international 's software development and library management system for z/vse or z/os , click here . this is " hotnews " template , used for relatively short lived news we want to emphasize , like condor week. keep it brief and use with care . if you enable hotnews , you should increase the number of news items below from the default of 6 so the news column uses the extra vertical space . < div class = " hotnews " > news goes here < /div > < div class = " hotnews " > our annual user conference , < a href = " http : //research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/htcondorweek2015/index.html " > htcondor week < /a > is scheduled for todo # - # , 2015 < /a > . save the date ! < /div > latest news item n0 htcondor security release : 8.2.1 july 7 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor version 8.2.1 . this release contains an important fix for a security issue introduced in version 8.1.4 . affected users should update as soon as possible . more details on the security issue can be found here . a complete list of bugs fixed can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.2.0 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n1 htcondor 8.2.0 released ! june 24 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor 8.2.0 . this new version contains : configuration is more powerful with new syntax and features , and the default configuration policy does not preempt jobs , monitoring is enhanced and now integrates with ganglia , automated detection and management of gpus , numerous scalability enhancements improve performance , an improved python api including support for python 3 , new native packaging and ports are available for the latest linux distributions including red hat 7 beta and debian 7 , cloud computing improvements including support for ec2 spot instances , openstack , and condor_ssh_to_job directly into ec2 jobs , grid universe jobs can now target google compute engine and boinc servers , partitionable slots now are compatible with condor_startd rank expressions , and consumption policies permit partitionable slots to be split into dynamic slots at negotiation time , improved data management including dynamic adjustment of the level of file transfer concurrency based on disk load , and experimental support to allow the execution of a job to be overlaid with the transfer of output files from the previous different job , and the new condor_sos tool helps administrators manage overloaded daemons . a complete list of bugs fixed can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.2.0 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n2 htcondor 8.0.7 released ! june 5 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor 8.0.7 . this new version contains : bosco support for os x mavericks ( 10.9 ) ; experimental support for compiling standard universe programs with the intel c compiler ; a fix for a memory leak when using cgroups ; several bug fixes for crashes under rare circumstances . a complete list of bugs fixed can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.0.7 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n3 htcondor 8.1.6 released ! may 22 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor version 8.1.6 . major new features include : automatic recognition , scheduling , and managment of gpus ; submit jobs to run on a boinc server , using the grid universe ; major new features for configuration : file inclusion to incorporate configuration , metaknobs--incorporation of predefined sets of configuration , conditional configuration using if/else syntax . a complete list of bugs fixed and features can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.1.6 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n4 htcondor 8.1.5 released ! april 15 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor version 8.1.5 . major new features include : a change to the default policy , such that it does not preempt jobs ; several new instances of non-blocking i/o to improve performance ; fewer server resources are used by the condor_schedd when handling condor_q requests ; a bug fix , such that large submit description files do not cause condor_submit to crash ; a bug fix , such that large configuration files do not cause the condor_master daemon to crash . a complete list of bugs fixed and features can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.1.5 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n5 openssl vulnerability april 10 , 2014 htcondor users who are using the ssl or gsi authentication methods , or submitting grid universe jobs may be vulnerable. please see the post on the htcondor-users mailing list . item n6 htcondor 8.1.4 released ! february 27 , 2014 the htcondor team is pleased to announce the release of htcondor version 8.1.4 . this development release contains all the bug fixes from the stable release version 8.0.6 . major new features include : added grid universe support for google compute engine ; support for defining custom resources that easily manage gpus ; a new tool that does gpu discovery ; improved scalability when using the shared port service ; python 3 support ; enhanced resilience due to the prompt detection of network failures . a complete list of bugs fixed and features can be found in the version history . htcondor 8.1.4 binaries and source code are available from our downloads page . item n7 consider presenting your work at htcondor week 2014 february 20 , 2014 htcondor week attendees are interested in hearing about your efforts during our annual meeting , april 28-30 . please consider presenting . details for adding your talk to the schedule are given in this page of information for htcondor week speakers . more news » filler para to extend left vertical line software what is the htcondor software ? downloads including htcondor source and binaries for linux , windows , and mac . documentation primarily consists of the htcondor manual . also see howto recipes and job submission examples . support options include community and professional solutions . forthcoming release plans license information security information community email lists - ask questions and share experiences with users worldwide . htcondor week is our annual community meeting. materials from past meetings include talks from science and industry , plus useful tutorials . htcondor wiki contains faqs , bug tickets , and more . live chat via irc on freenode # distcomp blog posts aggregated at github from multiple sites . tutorials privacy notice official logos filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line research and development research publications htcondor technologies including the widely used classad library information for developers jobs available in support of distributed computing at uw-madison the chtc team at the uw-madison , and a list of code contributors and maintainers . filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line filler para to extend left vertical line # # # # # footer # # # # # for comments or questions about this website , please email htcondor-admin @ cs.wisc.edu this work was supported in part by nsf grants mcs-8105904 , oci-0437810 , oci-0850745 , and/or aci-1321762 . end of div # container
