gordon bell microsoft research silicon valley put page name here end page name content here email : gbell at microsoft.com is the most reliable communication link mobile phone & answering machine : ( 415 ) 640 8255 best voice link office & computer lync phone : ( 415 ) 972-6542 ; this rings on my pc fax only if you must : ms fax gateway ( 425 ) 936-7329 address to " gbell " microsoft office : 835 market street , suite 700 , san francisco , ca , 94103 ( c ) dan tuffs , photographer gordon bell is a researcher emeritus in the microsoft research silicon valley laboratory , working in the san francisco laboratory. his interests include extreme lifelogging , digital lives , preserving everything in cyberspace , and cloud computing as a new computer class and platform. he proselytizes jim gray ’ s fourth paradigm of science . gordon has long evangelized scalable systems starting with his interest in multiprocessors ( mp ) beginning in 1965 with the design of digital 's pdp-6 , pdp-10 's antecedent , one of the first mps and the first timesharing computer. he continues this interest with various talks about trends in future supercomputing ( see papers … presentations , etc . ) and especially clustered systems formed from cost-effective “ personal computers ” . as digital 's vp of r&d he was responsible for the vax computing environment. in 1987 , he led the cross-agency group as head of nsf 's computing directorate that made " the plan " for the national research and education network ( nren ) aka the internet. when joining microsoft in 1995 , gordon had started focusing on the use of computers and the necessity of telepresence : being there without really being there , then. " there " can be a different place , right now , or a compressed and different time ( a presentation or recording of an earlier event ) . in 1999 this project was extended to include multimedia in the home ( visit papers … presentations , etc . ) . he puts nearly all of his atom- and electron-based bits in his local cyberspace — the mylifebits project c1998-2007. this includes everything he has accumulated , written , photographed , presented , and owns ( e.g. cds ) . in february 2005 an epiphany occurred with the realization that mylifebits goes beyond vannevar bush 's " memex " and is a personal transaction processing database for everything described in june 14 , 2005 sigmod keynote. the mylifebits project with jim gemmell is described in an article by us in the march 2007 scientific american . alec wilkinson described gordon and the mylifebits effort in the 28 may 2007 issue of the new yorker . by the publication of the book the final epiphany was that our e-memories are where the records reside and bio-memories are just urls into these records . he and jim gemmell have written a book entitled total recall : how the e-memory revolution will change everything which was published in september 2009. you can order it at amazon , barnes & noble , borders , or indiebound . please check out the total recall book website . your life , uploaded : the digital way to better memory , health , and productivity is the paperback version published september 2010. it is available in dutch , french , italian , japanese , korean , and portuguese . the remainder of the site includes these pages : papers , books , powerpoint presentations , videos since 1995 , when joining microsoft extended bio -- education , work history , honors... alaska fishing and france biking vitae : listing of books , computers , interviews , papers , patents , projects , and videos 4. supercomputing and the cyberinfrastructure lists articles , memos , talks , and testimony regarding the various aspects of high performance computing including funding , goals , and problems in reaching to the teraflops in 1995 and petaflops in 2010 . 5. the computer museum archive an archive of the computer museum in boston 1980-1998. in 1995 , tcm ’ s artifacts formed the basis of the computer history museum , mountain view , ca. the official site of the computer museum archive is at tcm.computerhistory.org . 6. gordon 's cyber museum that has bell 's books , the hollerith patent , the cdc 8600 manual , a talk about seymour cray , an album of supercomputer photos , posters about the history of computing , etc. 7. gordon 's digital equipment corporation ( dec ) cyber museum has artifacts , books , brochures , clippings , manuals , memos ( e.g. the vax strategy ) , memorabilia , photos , posters , presentations , etc. relating to digital equipment corporation a.k.a. dec . 8. the gordon bell computer timeline of computer history bc-2014 this document is composed of ten timelines of computing history with 500 + significant event lines of : technology generations , epoch inventions , programs and architectures , computers for control , scientific , technical applications including supercomputers , interface to people , record keeping and transaction processing , artificial intelligence , robots , communication and networking . 9. the timeline of computer history bc to present . gordon bell ’ s view of the important events that formed the computing age in 10 event lines . the computer history timeline , bc to the present . gordon bell view . 10. draft timeline of the history of the computer museum . this is a test of xls as a timeline maker . bell 's law of computer classes and class formation was first described in 1972 with the emergence of a new , lower priced microcomputer class based on the microprocessor. microsoft technical report msr-tr-2007-146 describes the law and gives the implication for multiple cores per chip , etc. established market class computers are introduced at a constant price with increasing functionality ( or performance ) . technology advances in semiconductors , storage , interfaces and networks enable a new computer class ( platform ) to form about every decade to serve a new need. each new usually lower priced class is maintained as a quasi independent industry ( market ) . classes include : mainframes ( 60 's ) , minicomputers ( 70 's ) , networked workstations and personal computers ( 80 's ) , browser-web-server structure ( 90 's ) , web services ( 2000 's ) , palm computing ( 1995 ) , convergence of cell phones and computers ( 2003 ) , and wireless sensor networks aka motes ( 2004 ) . beginning in the 1990s , a single class of scalable computers called clusters built from a few to tens of thousands of commodity microcomputer-storage-networked bricks began to cover and replace mainframes , minis , and workstation. bell predicts home and body area networks will form by 2010. see also the description of several laws ( e.g. moore 's , metcalfe 's , bill 's , nathan 's , bell 's ) that govern the computer industry is given in laws , a talk by jim gray and gordon bell . gordon was with his diamond exchange colleagues at the boulders , carefree , az where the group tested the segway , a dual-processor , two wheeled , computer and human transporter. since the test in 2002 , he has taken and recommended tours in the pacificia near san francisco , and washington , dc. right is the suv version . msr home | search | microsoft © 2013 microsoft and/or its suppliers. all rights reserved. terms of use end navigation
