table of contents all documents , programs , and downloadable software associated with the analytical engine are linked to entries in the following table of contents . introduction historical documents “ sketch of the analytical engine ” by l. f. menabrea , translated and with extensive commentary by ada augusta , countess of lovelace. this 1842 document is the definitive exposition of the analytical engine , which described many aspects of computer architecture and programming more than a hundred years before they were “ discovered ” in the twentieth century. if you have ever doubted , even for a nanosecond , that lady ada was , indeed , the first hacker , perusal of this document will demonstrate her primacy beyond a shadow of a doubt. ( this document was revised in 2006 to improve appearance and readability and requires a modern web browser with style sheet and unicode support. if your browser lacks such refinements , the original 1998 edition remains available. ) “ on the analytical engine ” , chapter viii of charles babbage 's 1864 autobiography , passages from the life of a philosopher . the report of the committee of the british association for the advancement of science which , in 1878 , recommended against constructing the analytical engine . “ the analytical engine ” , paper by major-general henry p. babbage ( charles babbage 's son ) , read at bath on september 12th , 1888 ; published in the proceedings of the british association , 1888 . ( the 1998 edition remains available for users with older browsers. ) “ babbage 's analytical engine ” , a 1910 paper by henry p. babbage published in the monthly notices of the royal astronomical society 70 , 517-526 , 645 [ errata ] ( 1910 ) , describing his construction of a portion of the mill and printing apparatus , used to compute a table of multiples of pi . “ pascal 's calculating machine ” . after years of work , in 1645 blaise pascal built a gear-based mechanical adding machine. this document is pascal 's disclosure of the operation of the machine and the grant of a patent upon it in 1649 by louis xiv , king of france . this is the original text ; even if you 're comfortable reading modern french , you 'll probably find this seventeenth century document rather quaint . the analytical engine emulator programming cards. a detailed description of the various cards used to program the analytical engine emulator , including a number of ready-to-run examples . the java applet emulator describes an analytical engine emulator which runs as a java applet within a web page. if your browser supports java , you can run analytical engine simulations with no additional software or installation . the command-line emulator. documentation , in unix manual page style , of aes , a command-line emulator for the analytical engine which you can download in either ready-to-run object code or source code form , which runs on any computer with a compatible java virtual machine implementation . is the emulator authentic ? discusses the challenges one faces in developing an emulator for a machine which was never actually built , and the rationale behind some of the design decisions made in implementing it. various aspects of the analytical engine are compared to those of both early electronic and present-day computers . the mathematical function library. babbage immediately recognised that one great advantage of the engine was that once a given formula was prepared for it , the cards for that formula could be placed in a library and called on whenever evaluation of it was needed in the future. this document describes a modest library of cards for evaluating the elementary transcendental functions , illustrating how the engine might compute them . glossary of babbage 's terminology download these are zip compressed archives , some of which contain subdirectories ; be sure to specify the appropriate options when extracting to preserve the directory structure. in addition , the source and object code archives contain long , upper and lower case file names. if extracted with a utility which flattens such names into ms-dos filename.ext format , they will neither compile or execute correctly . source code for the mathematical function library. includes the examples from the function library document and test programs for each function . object code ( .class files ) for the command-line emulator . all examples of programs for the analytical engine emulator which appear in documents linked to this page . source code ( .java files ) for both the applet and command-line emulators . emulator source code is intended for experienced java developers , and is utterly unsupported. the program is in the public domain and you can do anything you like with it , but you 're entirely on your own . just for fun “ picking locks and deciphering ” , chapter xviii of charles babbage 's 1864 autobiography , passages from the life of a philosopher , should lay to rest any lingering doubts you may harbour about charles babbage 's being a kindred spirit to present-day computer people . squaring the bishop . charles babbage closes his above memoir on picking locks and deciphering by posing a word puzzle which , to his knowledge , was unsolved. this document reports the results of a present-day computer assault on the puzzle . spoiler warning ! obviously , if you 'd like to have a go at solving the puzzle yourself , do n't read this page beforehand . portrait of charles babbage . portrait of ada augusta , countess of lovelace. you can also download zipped postscript source code for a full-page version of this drawing . analytical engine resources at other sites difference engine no. 2 , completed in 1991 at the science museum in london . a brief biography of charles babbage and reading list is published by the university of minnesota 's charles babbage institute . a detailed biography of charles babbage , in the history of computing by j.a.n. lee at virginia tech . a brief biography of ada augusta , countess of lovelace , the first programmer , with links to other resources related to ada . acknowledgements development of the analytical engine emulator was tremendously assisted by the incorporation of the bigint multiple precision integer arithmetic package , developed by stephen adams at the massachusetts institute of technology , department of electrical engineering and computer science . other computing history resources at fourmilab fourmilab home page by john walker
