eric s. raymond 's home page home page site map what 's new software projects howtos essays personal weblog for journalists freedom ! firearms ! who is esr ? email me welcome to my piece of the web. i maintain quite a lot of open-source software , faqs , and html documents , so this site is rather complex. it 's mostly validated html and light on the graphics , though. you wo n't have to wait an eon for any of the pages to load . if the software and faqs i maintain are valuable to you ( and especially if my software makes you money ) please leave me a tip . using this site if you want to link to , copy , mirror , or translate portions of this site , please read my copying policy . if the html or images on this site seem to be confusing your browser , see the site design notes . frequently-asked questions if you 're with the press , or want me to give a talk , here are answers to the usual questions . you can see a list of my upcoming speaking engagements . if you 're looking for the halloween documents , they 're here . having studied the history of other advocacy organizations , i specifically designed osi not to be a founder-centered cult of personality ; i think osi 's decision to move them off the osi website was a mistake , but our community is healthier because they had the power to make that mistake . it 's all about freedom.. . you can fetch my gpg public key here. i support widespread use of strong cryptography for privacy , and encourage you to use gpg encryption with this key when sending me messages . if your mailer makes this difficult , consider switching to mutt . as a public service and act of civil disobedience , we are proud to offer the decss code that will allow you to circumvent the encryption on the dvds you own. your dvd , your hardware , your choice ! ( please do not ask me technical questions about this code ; i have never used it. ) also , here is the decryption key used for most hd-dvd movies : 09 f9 11 02 9d 74 e3 5b d8 41 56 c5 63 56 88 c0 i have never used this , either , i 'm publishing it here because the mpaa is attempting to suppress public knowledge of it . finally , the hdcp master key . these magic bits defeat the hdcp scrambling that attempt to prevent you from viewing high-definition video on the hardware of your choice. ( no , i 've never used this either. ) i will not tolerate having general-purpose computing hardware , which should be an instrument of liberation and creativity , reduced to a locked-down delivery pipe for " content " . by trying to cripple my tools , the big-media machine has made me its enemy. drm delenda est ! ...and it 's all about me . you can read all about my projects , past present and future , including the software and faqs and web resources i maintain . i do consulting under the thyrsus enterprises service mark. you can surf to my resume from here , if you 're interested in my career or qualifications. i 'm not in the market for a job just now , though , unless you can offer a project that really fascinates me . you can read personal stuff about my life and politics and hobbies and friends. you may also find my writings of interest . local variables : compile-command : " ( cd ~ /www ; upload index.html ) " end :
