introduction to the works of peter naur peter naur , born 1928 , danish scientist , mag. scient. in astronomy 1949 , dr. phil. 1957. 1953-59 at k ø benhavns universitets astronomiske observatorium. 1959-69 at regnecentralen and lecturer at danmarks tekniske h ø jskole and niels bohr institute. 1969-98 professor of datalogi at k ø benhavns universitet. awarded the ieee computer society computer pioneer medal in 1986. recipient of the acm a. m. turing award 2005 portrait of peter naur painted by duo duo zhuang , 1995 , oil on canvas 65x45 cm acm has named peter naur winner of the 2005 turing-award , also known as the " nobel-prize of computing science. " the prize will be presented to peter naur at a banquet in san francisco on may 20 , 2006 . more about the prize ( acm homepage with press release ) the brief citation for the prize is as follows : " for fundamental contributions to programming language design and the definition of algol 60 , to compiler design , and to the art and practice of computer programming. " full citation for the prize how our mental life happens in our nervous systems freely available : three books and an article by peter naur , winner of the acm a. m . turing award 2005 psychology – neurology – without cognitivism the neural embodiment of mental life by the synapse-state theory mental life as described in william james ’ s the principles of psychology is shown to arise from the excitation activity in a network consisting of nodes , neurons , and synapses. habits are embodied in the plastic conductivity states of the synapses. the excitation activity is shown to account for all aspects of mental life : • the stream of thought , including its change from one moment to the next as influenced by feelings ; • things thought of , with their associations , fringes , and the feelings aroused by them ; • attention : the brief accentuation of certain parts of the stream of thought ; • the specious present : retention in the stream of thought , of parts attended to recently , providing the original experience of pastness ; • recall of things thought of previously ; • imagination : recall of sensations of things thought of previously ; • sensations and perceptions of influences on the sense organs , including perceptions of speech sounds and script ; • the muscular activity of speech sound utterances ; • response habits , manifesting themselves in situation-dependent responses , including expressions of personality characteristics such as sexual orientation ; • education of the nervous system from instincts , by imitation ; • personality changes , spontaneous and as induced by hypnosis . downloading of the 189 pages of the book : click here ( 1000 kilobytes ) neural impairments in a case of alzheimer ’ s disease according to the synapse-state theory , the activity of the neural system takes place in a network composed of neurons , nodes , and synapses , of altogether 9 different kinds , distributed into 5 layers : sense layer , motor layer , item layer , attention layer , and specious present layer. it is shown how all the symptoms , introspective as well as behavioral , observed over a period of 4 years in a particular case of alzheimer ’ s disease , the case of iris murdoch , can be understood to have arisen from the decay , one after the other , of the nodes of the item layer . downloading of the 29 pages of the article : click here ( 480 kilobytes ) an anatomy of human mental life psychology in unideological reconstruction , incorporating the synapse-state theory of mental life . includes detailed criticism of behaviorism and cognitivism . downloading of the 283 pages of the book : click here antiphilosophical dictionary thinking - speech - science/scholarship . reveals the philosophical misapprehensions about mental life . downloading of the 102 pages of the book : click here ( 824 kilobytes ) hard copies of the books may be obtained via ingrid @ polyteknisk.dk. free copies for review may be obtained by application by post mail to the author peter naur , begoniavej 20 , dk 2820 gentofte , denmark . presentation of works the philosophical corruption of the science of psychology - an antiphilosophical study of a. n. whitehead ’ s process and reality , 2013 joseph haydn ’ s symphonies – a lost tradition an analysis of recorded performances , 2012 the meaning of joseph haydn ’ s symphonies , 2011 critique of a. j. ayer : the problem of knowledge , 2011 stuttering and similar features of speech - causes and cures , 2011 invited lecture at the conference " click-on-knowledge 2011 : web-based knowledge and contemporary scholarship " , may 11th - 13th 2011 , copenhagen : misapprehensions around knowledge the aberration of light : chronic scientific confusion , 2008 the neural embodiment of mental life by the synapse-state theory , 2008 ( download 1 mb ) an anatomy of human mental life , february 2005 psykologi i videnskabelig rekonstruktion , 2002 antiphilosophical dictionary , 2001 datalogisk kollokvium , roskilde universitetscenter 2000 nov. 23 ; and keynote at nordichi2000 , stockholm 2000 oct. 23-25 ( www.stimdi.se. ) : human-computer interaction and human thinking contribution of 2000 nov. 4 : philosophical locutions in scientific and scholarly activity universitetsavisen , nr. 8 , 2000 maj 4 : fri os fra filosofi antifilosofisk leksikon , 1999 main work of 1992-94 : knowing and the mystique of logic and rules principal contributions in computing until 1990 : computing : a human activity concise survey of computer methods , 1974 bibliography of peter naur paper by peter naur february 2004 : a synapse-state theory of mental life as an alternative to hebbms theory , mental life is described in terms of sherringtonms synapses , habits , and william jamesms notion of the stream of thought . the theory accounts for the major organic states , such as waking , sleep , and hypnotic trance ; for states of general sensitivity ; and for the following aspects of the stream of thought : thought objects with their fringes ; acquainting ( conception ) ; knowing about ; substantive and transitive parts ; attention ; association ; the specious present ; remembered recall ( memory ) ; sensation ; and perception . the full text is available here . ny bog af peter naur p å dansk marts 2002 : psykologi i videnskabelig rekonstruktion bogen freml æ gger en videnskabelig rekonstruktion af psykologi , forst å et som l æ ren om menneskers tankeliv. rekonstruktionens begrundelse er at det akademiske fag psykologi i det tyvende å rhundrede har v æ ret i forfald , i den forstand at videnskabelig indsigt i menneskers tankeliv er blevet glemt og erstattet af uholdbare ideologiske opfattelser , hovedsagelig behaviorisme , kognitivisme , saussurisme , og chomskyisme. disse opfattelser f ø rer til defekte forst å elser af menneskers tankeliv og sproglighed. i bogen dokumenteres dette forfald ud fra udtalelser i , hovedsagelig , den store danske encyclop æ di . i bogen vises det hvordan tankelivets forskellige aspekter kan beskrives sammenh æ ngende og i overensstemmelse med hvad vi hver is æ r v é d om tankelivet fra vores egen erfaring , s å ledes som psykologien blev fremstillet i william jamesm klassiske principles of psychology . hertil g ø res der udf ø rligt rede for defekterne i de nutidige dominerende opfattelser , som disse freml æ gges i mere end 50 af den store danske encyclop æ dis artikler , skrevet af ca. 30 forskellige forfattere . bogen forhandles via naturfagsbogladen , universitetsparken 13 , 2100 k ø benhavn ø , email : naturfag @ unibog.dk , og via alle danske boghandlere . peter naur : psykologi i videnskabelig rekonstruktion , 113 sider , isbn 87-987221-2-3 , pris 150 kr incl. moms . new book by peter naur may 2001 : antiphilosophical dictionary : thinking - speech - science/scholarship psychology purged of philosophical misconceptions and language fallacies | thinking described in terms of 38 locutions building upon william jamesms stream of thought | speech discussed in terms of 6 language fallacies | coherent description as the core of the scientific/scholarly activity | analyses of passages from ren é descartes , bertrand russell , ludwig wittgenstein , gilbert ryle , and others . 102 pages , naur | com publishing , list price us $ 18 . how to order order by email , telephone or fax at " universitetsbogladen " , the university bookstore of copenhagen university for natural sciences and computing. include the following information : name , address , telephone number , number of books , and if convenient credit card data - needed when delivery is outside scandinavia. the bookstore will reply with an acceptance of your order and inform you of the price including mailing costs . universitetsbogladen , universitetsparken 13 , dk-2100 k ø benhavn ø , denmark tlf. ( + 45 ) 3537 1133 / ( + 45 ) 3532 0035 , e-mail : naturfag @ unibog.dk , hjemmeside : http : //www.unibog.dk/ bog af peter naur p å dansk : antifilosofisk leksikon : t æ nkning - sproglighed - videnskabelighed bogen forhandles via naturfagsbogladen , universitetsparken 13 , 2100 k ø benhavn ø , email : naturfag @ unibog.dk , og via alle danske boghandlere . peter naur : antifilosofisk leksikon , 110 sider , isbn 87-987221-0-7 , pris 140 kr incl. moms . hvis du interesserer dig for emnerne psykologi , lingvistik , videnskabsteori - og datalogi .. . mange vil finde peter naurs nye hovedv æ rk " antifilosofisk leksikon : t æ nkning * sproglighed * videnskabelighed " s æ rdeles interessant l æ sning . gennem originale og skarpt afsl ø rende analyser af koryf æ er indenfor filosofien som wittgenstein , heidegger , ryle , russell , descartes og aristoteles tegner naur et billede af , hvordan filosofferne " har plaget os med bedrevidende snak om sandhed , logik , virkelighed , essens , og v æ ren. dermed har de forkvaklet forst å elsen af menneskers t æ nkning og sproglighed. de har p å duttet os en gold , logikbunden opfattelse af videnskabelighed. " ( citat fra bogens bagsidetekst. ) i sin s æ rlige koncise stil giver naur samtidig sit bud p å en sammenh æ ngende opfattelse af t æ nkning , sproglighed og videnskabelighed. naur bygger heri p å empirisk orienterede videnskabm æ nd som william james , otto jespersen og james d. watson . et studie af bogen vil bidrage med nyttig indsigt i , hvordan du kan arbejde videnskabeligt p å hvilket som helst omr å de , ogs å inden for datalogien . www realisation : bo holst-christensen and erik fr ø kj æ r
