skip to content whitepapers | the channel data centre software networks security policy business hardware science bootnotes columnists video forums operating systems applications developer verity stob software edsger dijkstra : rip pioneer and wit by andrew orlowski , 8 aug 2002 implementing global e-invoicing with guaranteed legal certainty dutch computer pioneer edsger w dijkstra has died , aged 72. over forty years , dijkstra enriched software with many concepts , often expressed with such wit and clarity they make your teeth hum . he most famously proselytised structured programming , but his work battled against an electronics industry that " solved no problems , only created new ones. " revisiting his 1972 turing lecture two years ago , dijkstra wrote : " computing 's central challenge , viz. 'how not to make a mess of it ' , has not been met. " he illustrated this with a parable . dijkstra described how he entered the field , before there was a recognizable field to enter : - " in 1955 i took the decision not to become a theoretical physicist , but a programmer instead , " he wrote. " i had concluded that of theoretical physics and programming , programming embodied the greater intellectual challenge , " he explained . two years later , however the dutch marriage registrar refused to accept programmer as a profession , and instead put " theoretical physicist " he explained in his turing lecture [ 480k pdf ] . but dijkstra shunned credit for his most famous , and overused aphorism : " considered harmful " . he had this to say : - " in 1968 the communications of the acm published a text of mine under the title " the goto statement considered harmful , which in later years would be most frequently referenced , regrettably , however , often by authors who had seen no more of it than its title , which became a cornerstone of my fame by becoming a templace : we would see all sorts of articles under the title 'x considered harmful ' for almost any x , including one titled " dijkstra considered harmful. " " but what had happened ? i had submitted a paper under the title " a case against the goto statement , which in order to speed up its publication , the editor had changed into a 'letter to the editor ' , and in the process he had given it a new title of his own invention ! the editor was niklaus wirth " . in his love letter to the genius of the netherlands , brilliant orange , david winner cites the dutch sculptor jeroen henneman explaining the simplicity and elegance of a match-winning bergkamp pass : " one moment the pitch is crowded and narrow. suddenly it is huge and wide. " edsger dijkstra , who devised a single source shortest path algorithm [ more ] [ animated applet ] , would have appreciated that. ® related links ewds : edsger dijkstra manuscripts collection [ 10mb ] university of texas , austin : notice ewd home page at university of texas , austin implementing global e-invoicing with guaranteed legal certainty tips & corrections more from the register microsoft fixes all those shaky gopro vids nobody wants to watch redmond owes us this 'hyperlapse ' tech after inflicting powerpoint on the world 30 yosemite siri ? apple might plonk chatty assistant on your desktop - report patent prompts rumou... wtf is that ? whose finger ? 33 just when you thought you were alone in the bath : hi-res mapping satellite ready for launch will beam back images of objects as small as 30cm 33 ca n't touch this ! microsoft joins opengl 3d graphics group love of webgl after 14 years an outsider 50 tiny steps : http 2.0 wg looks for consensus comments due 1 september 21 oracle database 12c 's data redaction security smashed live on stage microsoft should school ellison on safeguarding privates , says infosec bod 38 factory-fresh delivery : get your opensuse fix daily milestone builds are for fat and buggy software projects 12 oracle cold bath shrinks larry ellison 's pay package size is a relative thing 19 microsoft kills windows 8.1 update 2 and patch tuesday you 'll never believe what it 's called inst... actually , you probably can 82 microsoft throws old versions of internet explorer under the bus come 2016 , if you 're not up to date you 're on your own – enjoy your security bugs 106 whitepapers esg smb storage trends and how hp simply storeit solutions can help looking at research findings specific to smb challenges , and details on how to make the complex simple , with a new approach to storage . implementing global e-invoicing with guaranteed legal certainty explaining the role local tax compliance plays in successful supply chain management and e-business and how leading global brands are addressing this . top 8 considerations to enable and simplify mobility in this whitepaper learn how to successfully add mobile capabilities simply and cost effectively . magic quadrant for enterprise file synchronization and sharing this magic quadrant report discusses the strengths and potential cautions of today 's efss destination vendors . cio survey : all ’ s not well at endpoints cios understand the importance of securing their data , but they often fall short when it comes to adequately identifying , classifying , and backing up data . search more resources most read updated password manager lastpass goes titsup : users locked out 512kday the internet just broke under its own weight – we explain how uber and lyft sitting in a tree , 'c-a-n-c-e-l-i-n-g each other 's rides ' tim cook on pale , male apple : 'as ceo , i 'm not satisfied ' breaking fad dolby atmos is coming home and it sounds amazing spotlight what 's in your toolbox ? why the browser wars are so last decade 37 google hops into bed with brit red-top : cooks up 'draw an app ' coding compo for kids 18 yosemite siri ? apple might plonk chatty assistant on your desktop - report 33 google 's 'right to be forgotten ' : one rule for celebs , another for plebs 41 quicker , easier to fly to moon than change web standards ... or is it ? 24 kde releases ice-cream coloured plasma 5 just in time for summer 66 no more all caps and other pleasures of visual studio 14 36 no time to read facebook ? delegate the task to your future self 20 party like it 's not 1999 : cry freedom for a better web 21 programming languages in economics : cool research , bro , but what about , er , economics ? 62 iphone user shamegasm : 'i beg of you ' , delete sex app from my purchase list 40 wetsuits , sunshine , bikini babes and a competitive streak : epyx california games more sponsored links sign up to the register to receive newsletters and alerts send us news tips week ’ s headlines el reg archive top 20 stories ebooks webcasts privacy advertise with us company info © copyright 1998 – 2014
