become an interior decorator become an interior decorator imagine having a rewarding , high-paying job that lets you use your creativity to make homes and businesses more beautiful and comfortable . welcome to the world of interior decorating ! there are few jobs that offer so many benefits . as an interior decorator you will have the satisfaction of making your vision a reality. you will meet interesting people , and because many people who hire interior decorators are wealthy , you will likely spend time in many beautiful homes . if you start your own interior decorating business you will enjoy the freedom and financial rewards of being your own boss. and perhaps most importantly your interior decorating " work " will be fun , interesting , and personally rewarding . interior decorators are more in demand than ever before. most are hired to decorate homes ( including yachts ! ) , but they are also hired to decorate interiors of a wide variety of businesses . decorators may decorate the entire interior of a building or a single room such as the living room , kitchen , bathroom , or bedroom . here are just a few of the types of businesses that need interior decorators. which ones can you imagine yourself doing interior decorating for ? advertising agencies art galleries bed and breakfasts boutique stores corporate head offices hotels law firms model homes for home builders museum stores public relations firms restaurants spas many other types of businesses from doctors ' offices to luxury car dealerships as long as you have the desire , you can become an interior decorator. no special education or experience is necessary to break into interior decorating and succeed. ( unlike becoming a certified interior designer which has strict requirements including two to five years of post-secondary education in interior design. ) you can start interior decorating and become an interior decorator immediately . if you would like to be paid to decorate homes or businesses , the fabjob guide to become an interior decorator is for you ! in this book you will discover how you can get started and succeed in the exciting career of interior decorating. this guide focuses on information that is difficult to find elsewhere - how to get hired as an interior decorator . however , if you also want to learn interior decorating , this guide can save you many hours of research time , because it includes step-by-step interior decorating instructions plus links to the best resources available to learn interior decorating ( including many free resources ) . this guide offers insider tips and expert career advice from successful interior decorators and interior designers. it covers topics of vital importance to anyone who wants to learn interior decorating and get hired as an interior decorator , including : getting ready identifying interior decorating experience you already have ( even redecorating your own home ) information about interior decorating and interior design schools , colleges courses , and certificate programs ways to teach yourself interior decorating what clients and employers will expect you to know about interior decorating , including : space planning color light decorating styles furniture floorings walls and windows other interior decorating elements the importance of " training your eye " so you see like an interior decorator how to quickly get interior decorating experience through volunteer work and internships step-by-step interior decorating instructions getting an interior decorating job how to create an impressive portfolio even if you have no previous paid interior decorating experience how to make your resume and cover letter stand out in the crowd ( includes samples ) discover who employs interior decorators and how to contact them , including : retailers home builders interior decorating and design firms other employers where interior decorating job openings are advertised discover what employers are looking for how to dress and what to do in an interview starting your own interior decorating business how to start an interior decorating business with little or no money links to all the information you need about the " business " side of things ( permits , insurance , etc. ) information about interior decorating franchises how to set up your office pricing your interior decorating services identifying potential interior decorating clients ( homeowners , businesses , etc. ) how to market yourself effectively how to do a client consultation where to find suppliers how to get up to a 50 % discount on furniture and interior decorating materials plus , you will discover : how to make design boards or presentation boards how to network like a pro valuable interior decorating resources that some interior decorators take years to discover ( including the best trade shows , professional associations , publications , etc. ) how to get media publicity for your interior decorating business ( e.g. photo features in newspapers and magazines ) samples of everything you need to launch your interior decorating career , including : furniture cut-outs to use in space planning sample design boards sample interior decorating resume sample of what to say when talking to a prospective interior decorating client sample client decorating questionnaire sample interior decorating proposal sample letter of understanding sample work schedule for interior decorating repairs and renovations checklist sample budget form sample interior decorating contract and more ! ( including free updates ) the information in this guide can save you many hours of research time. in addition to valuable advice , you will find the best interior decorating resources gathered for you in one place . you can have all this and more for an incredible special price. people pay hundreds of dollars for courses on interior decorating. the fabjob guide to become an interior decorator contains some of the best interior decorating career advice you could get from other sources , plus much more . this guide has been selling for up to $ 39.95 u.s. for an e-book alone. special offer # 1 : if you buy the e-book today , thursday , august 14 , 2014 you can have this valuable insider information for the incredible price of only $ 29.97 . special offer # 2 : although this guide has previously only been available as an e-book you can get a print copy together with a cd-rom that includes sample checklists , contract , forms , and more. this 2-in-1 book and cd-rom set is only $ 5 more ( plus $ 5 shipping ) . plus , as a bonus , you will also receive an e-book so you can read it immediately . note : only a very limited number of copies of the new edition of this popular guide have been published in print , and are available on a first come first served basis. the previous edition sold out , so if you would like to have a print copy of the new edition , we strongly suggest that you purchase it immediately . you will earn back much more than the price of the guide with your very first interior decorating job. and with this guide you can get hired to decorate much more quickly . if you believe you deserve to have the career of your dreams , this guide is for you. it gives you what you need to know to get started in interior decorating and become an interior decorator . do n't miss the opportunity to have the career of your dreams. if you are undecided , take advantage of our guarantee . buy it , read it , and if you are not satisfied , your money will be refunded. ordering is fast , easy and safe . you will receive your e-book within minutes ( or you can arrange for an e-book to be sent as a gift to someone else on the date of your choice ) . an e-book is an electronic book which you can immediately read on your computer. it includes photos and you can adjust the type size to make it as pleasant to read as possible. you can also print a copy from your own computer. fabjob.com donates a portion of the proceeds from the sale of each guide to planting trees and protecting the world 's rain forests . click here to order your copy of the guide now get an interior decorator certificate and earn more discover how you can get an interior decorator certificate from the international association of professions career college ( a division of fabjob ) satisfaction guarantee : we are so confident that the interior decorating guide can help you achieve your dreams , we will give you a refund if you decide within 30 days of purchase that you are not satisfied with the information contained in the guide. become an interior decorator now . 257 pages availability : you can have the e-book within minutes. ordering is fast , easy , and safe. we have a limited number of copies of a 2-in-1 print book and cd-rom set ( includes sample forms , checklists , contract , and more ) . the previous edition sold out , so order today to avoid disappointment . fabjob.com was featured in woman 's world magazine ( " land your dream job " article ) . " interior decorating is a fab job because you are being creative and making people happy. " - debbie travis debbie is one of the interior decorating experts who share career advice in this fabjob guide. her popular television show , debbie travis ' painted house , is seen in over 50 countries by several million viewers a week . " want to learn how to decorate your own home better ? do you think you have what it takes to help others design better interiors for their homes or offices ? fabjob.com offers a new book that outlines every step along the way to a career of professional interior decoration. step-by-step instruction and advice tell you everything you need to learn , from designers ' tricks to the nitty-gritty world of business. become an interior decorator is a good value and a good read. " jill florio bella online book review save money decorating your own home in this book you will discover the techniques used by professional interior decorators to get discounts of 20-50 % below the regular retail price on furniture and materials. avoid overpaying by using these insider techniques to save money on purchases for your own home or office . " your book is the most useful book i 've ever read. i did n't realize how unprepared i was to enter the field until i read your book on how to become an interior decorator. i wish you could see how my portfolio looks now - so professional ! thank you so much for the tips. " donna frasca pittsburgh , pa " i just received the guide today and i believe that it will be of tremendous help in starting my business. the wording is in layman terms anyone can understand and apply to their business. it 's great ! " sean muse ocoee , fl " the fabjob guide to become an interior decorator gave me the valuable business information traditional decorating books just do n't have. i found out where and how to find clients , how to network effectively and how to conduct a client consultation. lessons such as design elements and decorating styles along with the step-by-step instructions and bonus forms and contracts will start you on the path to an exciting and creative career. the fabjob guides are like a building blueprint - you just have to follow the directions. i did it and you can too ! " jan riddell calgary , ab " i just wanted to drop a note to you and let you know how i enjoyed and was motivated by your fabjob interior designer book. i had been reading books on starting my business but felt i was probably not going to get work because i did not have a degree. well your book changed my way of thinking. low and behold i started and i am so busy ! i sell myself first and my portfolio has grown to be very impressive. thanks for your positive words... and i will never again think i can not do it... those words are not in my vocabulary. " kathy urech battle creek , mi " so happy i came across your website ! i purchased 'fabjob guide to become an interior decorator ' it 's packed with so much information and tips. it has helped me in my new venture tremendously ! ! " carol wilkes chattanooga , tn " i was looking to make a career change and have always wanted to do interior decorating. i have enjoyed the book tremendously. it is very thorough , insightful and inspiring. thank you for such a great book. " kaysha gammage wiesbaden , germany " i had been interested in starting my own business for quite some time , but had always been hindered by lack of know-how and confidence. purchasing your guide to become an interior decorator was a wonderful decision. it gives step-by-step directions , and provides many valuable resources. i believe it is valuable for anyone who wants to become an interior decorator. " phebe smith hattiesburg , ms " the fabjob guide to 'become an interior decorator ' has been really inspiring and has opened my eyes to some of the perspectives in the business i never really thought of. the 'working with clients ' has been particularly helpful. glad i purchased the book. " khadija aliyu kaduna , nigeria " i just ordered the interior decorating guide and i can already tell that this is going to help me a lot. i have just scanned through this book online , which was very easy to receive after i ordered the book and learned more in 30 minutes than i have in the last 5 years. this book is more than i expected. i do highly recommend this book to anyone. buy right away. " susan bobier canton , north carolina " i can not tell you how thrilled i am with your book ! it has been the most invaluable source of information for me. thank you for your service and for providing me with the confidence to embark on a career i have dreamed of for many years. i have recommended your site to anyone who will listen to me . carol mckane sydney teachers : looking for a text for your course ? this fabjob guide is available as a textbook for college courses. order 25 or more books for a savings of 45 % or more. see our bulk orders page for ordering information . " make more money. look to your strengths to come up with ways to make extra money at fabjob.com. " - from the " 2008 money & investing guide , " by tamara e. holmes , essence magazine , january , 2008 fabjob guides have been featured in stories at the wall street journal and entrepreneur magazine sites copyright © 1999-2014 fabjob inc. all rights reserved . contact us privacy policy for help with ordering call toll-free 1-888-fabjob-1 ( 1-888-322-5621 ) this fabjob guide has information about interior decorating , interior decorating jobs , interior decorating and design , home interior decorating , interior decorating careers , and more.
