begin google analytics end google analytics begin knotice tracking snippets end knotice tracking snippets search go close about history facts + stats leadership careers at cia continuing education overview classes pre-college staff young artist classes life drawing classes for teachers + counselors cinematheque about films this week film schedule events blog become a member faqs directions contact events alumni overview alumni profiles events exhibitions alumni services master series exhibitions current exhibitions past exhibitions about the reinberger galleries library overview library catalogs find articles find images hours resources artists ' books library services library blog library staff blog map directory contact my cia creativity matters academics admissions student life news give now i am.. . overview majors animation biomedical art ceramics drawing game design glass graphic design illustration industrial design interior architecture jewelry + metals painting photography + video printmaking sculpture + expanded media curriculum overview college catalog foundation liberal arts international + domestic study visiting artists professional experience bfa master 's of art education digital canvas initiative cores + connections overview extended classroom real-world experience your professors community works for teachers + counselors gallery of student work view book what will you be ? take a quiz. find yourself . overview apply apply online why cia ? for transfer students for international students for u.s. veterans submitting your portfolio financing your education financial aid overview applying for financial aid financial aid checklist scholarships payment options loans grants work study program tuition + fees net price calculator faqs academic progress visit cia admissions events admissions faqs meet your cia counselor gallery of student work course catalog view book forms + resources alumni profiles 2d3d competition what will you be ? take a quiz. find yourself . overview our campus facilities the neighborhood studio spaces campus map one campus housing on-campus housing off-campus housing dining housing policies student services overview registrar advising tutoring disability support academic services health & safety digital output center for international students technology services sexual violence : support , reporting policies + procedures career center overview for current students for alumni for employers orientation start fall orientation faqs life at cia student activities annual student events photos + videos student blogs faqs what will you be ? take a quiz. find yourself . your gift supports our success . overview make a gift capital campaign planned giving annual fund annual report burchfield cia , just for you . the cia community a high school student an international student a transfer student a parent an alum an employer read more apply online now get started here . view full story story aug 13 , 2014 biomedical grad wins award for animation on stuttering view details cia exhibition may 19 , 2014 2014 student summer show view full story story aug 11 , 2014 student-designed app teaches embryology , improves scores view details cia exhibition aug 28 , 2014 2014 faculty exhibition opening reception view link social about 2 hours ago via facebook need plans for the evening ? stop by the beat uptown , a free thursday night summer concert series that will have two great musical acts tonight : mayfield strings trio and uno lady . also , cia will have a table on the plaza , featuring cia grad julia simmons , who will be painting live during the event. stop by and say " hi ! " view full story story jul 23 , 2014 professor 's productive year saw exhibitions , acquisitions , residencies , travel , and press view details cia exhibition aug 28 , 2014 2014 faculty exhibition view full story story jun 25 , 2014 cuyahoga county unveils county seal designed by cia student view details events sep 27 , 2014 filmmaker and author john waters to present one-man show view details blog aug 12 , 2014 8/15-16 : eric rohmer 's a summer 's tale , a trip to the moon & more ! view full story story aug 20 , 2013 cia named one of the " best in the midwest " view details events nov 15 , 2014 fall 2014 open house previous next open/close close read more interested in our 15 programs of study ? learn more about our academic programs and the application process . read more our connections are your connections at cia , you ’ ll work in an engaging learning environment with world-class faculty , who will connect you with the real world of art and design . our campus at the heart of a cultural hub . learn why we love our campus . read more community works visiting artists , exhibitions , conference and symposia exploring socially engaged art . read more support cia show the world creativity matters : make a gift to the annual fund . read more cores + connections learn more about cia 's proven method for academic and professional excellence . academics overview for teachers + counselors master 's in art education curriculum cores + connections digital canvas initiative admissions overview apply tuition + fees financing events visit cia forms + resources meet your counselor alumni profiles faqs student life our campus photos + videos orientation housing life at cia student services student blogs career center career quiz faqs news give now make a gift capital campaign planned giving annual fund burchfield i am.. . cia community high school student international student transfer student parent alumni employer about continuing education cinematheque events alumni exhibitions library a premier college of art and design . 11141 east boulevard , cleveland oh 44106 usa 800.223.4700 © 2014 , cleveland institute of art | privacy policy | design and development by
