sharp redesigns begin : constant contact stylish email newsletter form sign up for our newsletter end : constant contact stylish email newsletter form img src = " images/re-design-photos.jpg " alt = " re-design photo " class = " floatright " award-winner in the home and garden category of the 2009 national indie excellence awards templatebegineditable name = " editregion1 " if you are interested in home staging courses , home staging training or interior redesign training , you 've come to the right place. val sharp has been teaching these concepts since 2002. she is the founder and past president of the canadian redesigners association ( crda ) and an approved instructor with interior redesign industry specialists ( iris ) in the us . you ’ ve heard of interior decorating , home decorating , interior design , redecorating , and home decorators. now there is interior redesign . also called redesign home staging , real estate staging , one-day decorating , or home arrangement , interior redesign involves one day interior design makeovers of your home using what you already own . we do what many home decorators don ’ t do -- we give your interior d é cor an elegant , sophisticated look using your existing furnishings. and we do it in one day . justin ryan from hgtv 's home heist says , " do n't be afraid to add or to switch around pieces from one room to another , to give a home a fresh identity -- one that should reflect your personal style. " this is what redesign is all about . to have a career in interior design , interior decorating , or home staging , you don ’ t need a college education , or to go to decorating school for years. you can start your business right away with a one-week course that provides training in both interior redesign and home staging. val sharp was the first person in canada to teach interior redesign and home staging. see training for more information about her courses . find a professional interior redesigner or home stager in your area...visit the redesign and staging directory. templateendeditable sharp redesigns is a proud member of.. . home | about | redesign | staging | training | portfolio media | books | charities | resources | contact copyright 2007 sharp redesigns website provided by gta web solutions home about redesign interior redesign testimonials home staging home staging staging tips testimonials training certification course description course schedule testimonials portfolio my books media articles our charities resources contact us
