skip links for text browsers skip to main | skip to sidebar water : : earth : : wind : : fire green design . landscape and garden . home and interiors . wordart . visual art . life . spirit . sustainability . design with the elements google_ad_section_start ( name = default ) thursday , may 28 book of fours by joyce ellen davis my friend and writer/poet/blogger/nature-lover/people-lover-especially-grandchildren-lover , joyce ellen davis , has recently published her ( at least ) 3rd book of poetry , a book of fours . i love the cover , but i might be biased -- it 's my artwork -- : - } and after i read her poems ( which i know i will love because i always do appreciate joyce 's language and insight and flowingness ) i will write an update to this post. it 's an honor , joyce , to have my collage with your poetry. thank you. off to buy joyce 's book ! 12 comments thursday , may 14 sam 's last road trip sam 's last road trip , originally uploaded by maureen shaughnessy march 1989 - may 2009 his spirit has gone to the light ... sam went with us to the high desert in utah last week ... we knew he was very close to dying yet we could not bear to leave him , so we took him to see our teacher , brant secunda , one last time. brant gave sam a blessing on wednesday at midnight. sam 's spirit left his body at 10 : 00 thursday morning. as he breathed his last breaths , i lay on the floor next to sam , my face just inches away from his eyes : he looked at me til the very end. tim had his hand on sam 's heart and we both told him over and over that it was okay to leave ... that he had been the best pup ever and that we loved him more than anything. the last thing he knew was the sound of our voices and the touch of our hands stroking his head , gently scratching behind his good ear and touching his heart. sam died peacefully and naturally surrounded by our love... i miss him so much. my heart has a hole now. yet i know he is in a good place. i took this last photo of sam sleeping on the back seat of our car on the way down to zion , utah. his face was so white ! go to the light , sam , go to the light like an arrow . . . . . i will write more later when i can . 14 comments wednesday , october 8 walking in gold : finding healing in nature yesterday , sam and i took a hike through the montana gold -- that ecstatic autumn aliveness when aspens turn and skies stay clear blue even as temperatures drop below 50f and there is new snow on the peaks. we walked along a meditative runnel through aspen and chokecherry groves , marsh grass and spent wild iris seedheads. the sage pumped it 's heady volatile oils into the breeze. rabbitbrush brightened the dry , grassy hills with pillows of yellow-white , backlit seeds. we found " our " redtail tree -- an ancient aspen tucked into the creek bottom where a pair of hawks raise their brood each spring on an ever-expanding platform of twigs and limbs. i half expected to find a redtail feather gift , under the abandoned nest. no such luck. but i did have the luck of a whole hour lying on the gold with my companion and best friend ... sam taking in all the sights and smells of grove-wetland-autumn-turning. and me , absorbing healing rays of sunlight and marveling at the trembling frame of sky leaves above me. sam is going to be 20 in march '09. he is really slowing down lately. we think it might be canine cognitive dysfunction . he has most of the signs now. there are times when he walks into the kitchen or my office and just stands there looking a little lost , as if he is thinking , " now , what did i come in here for ? " routines are much more important to him than ever -- yet he often refuses to sleep on either of his two comfortable beds -- he prefers to squeeze himself into small complicated places like under our kitchen table between all of the chair legs. if breakfast is delayed , or i do n't take him for his morning walk right away , he may stand in one place for an hour -- literally -- just staring , waiting for the expected promise to come true. sam sleeps alot , like most elderly dogs. an hour for each year of life - 20 hours a day. the remaining 4 hours are divided like so : 1 hour walking slowly , rationing his pee so he can leave as many business cards around the neighborhood as possible. 1 hour lying with chin on floor watching me without moving anything but his eyes 1/2 hour sitting on the front or back porch watching the world go by , smelling its ' enticing fragrances and savoring the breezes in his coat. sometimes this involves staring at one or more deer as they wipe out our vegetable harvest. it would be too much trouble to get up and bark or chase. heh. 1/2 hour pacing 1/2 hour either waiting for his meals while panting ( i often ca n't tell if the panting is from enthusiasm or anxiety ) or working on a cooking pan or mixing bowl project ( meaning , licking it clean of all molecules of taste/smell ) 1/2 hour lying next to me on the bed in the morning. this is coffee-newspaper-cuddling time for sam and me after tim gets up. : - ) twice a month we have a slight change in the routine : those are the days we mix up his homemade raw food in a huge bread bowl. sam knows when i get out the cuisinart and cover every inch of counter top in our tiny kitchen with vegetables and nuts , that eventually he will get to lick that bowl. yummmm. he watches me the entire time i 'm cutting , chopping , stirring and scooping. this is doggie heaven ! ( do you remember getting to lick the cookie dough out of the mixing bowl when you were little ? ) it 's like that. his coat is shiny and smooth. his zest for life seems strong. his breath stinks and that ear infection still gives him trouble. he has more cysts and lumps and warts as time goes by. but overall sam is still chugging away happily. his vet said yesterday that when sam makes it to next march , she will be having a champagne party for him at the clinic. he will be there for the toasts to a very very old gent. ~ ~ my head knows sam is not really immortal. but my heart wonders ... ~ ~ 18 comments saturday , june 14 contemplative art in the garden a peaceful place to connect with every part of creation . . . resting among the ten thousand things , © 2008 by maureen shaughnessy each one of us is here for a reason and the world would be incomplete without us. i have been working with my son , gabe and his best friend jack , on spring garden cleanup for some of my design clients. i love hanging out in these gardens ! for me , that is one way i know i have succeeded in a garden design. another sign of a successful design is that my clients are happy in and with their own gardens , even years after the initial installation. the almost life-size buddha ( above ) rests among the " ten thousand things " in a contemplative garden we have installed over the last two summers. " ten thousand things " is a buddhist expression representing the interconnection and simultaneous unity and diversity of everything in the universe. in the huichol spiritual tradition my husband and i follow , there is a similar concept , that each of us has all of creation inside our hearts : huichols say we are all joyous beings of light. we were created out of love , from all the elements of the natural world -- fire , air , water , and earth. because of this , each of us is a miniature universe , a mirror of the natural world outside of ourselves , and also a mirror of the spirit world. all the knowledge and secrets of those two worlds are also inside of us , and everything is perfectly arranged. our job is to tap into that arrangement , to understand it and to live in harmony with it. -- brant secunda , huichol shaman and healer if we strive to perceive -- and deeply understand -- our world as inseparable from ourselves , then we will have empathy for every part of creation. we are an integral part of everything and every one of the ten thousand things is , in the true sense , part of us. and everything is perfectly arranged ! t his -- whether we paint , draw , sing , pray , dance or write poetry -- this makes every one of us an artist and a spiritual being. so , today , go out into a " garden , " no matter where it is and see your connection to nature as a work of art and as an act of prayer : in a wildlife refuge , in your back yard , on your balcony , in a city park , in a plant nursery or just in a clay pot on your kitchen windowsill. find your connection with nature : watch the unfolding of leaf buds and see not just a " plant " but also freedom , flight , wings , wind , the lightness of a heart. see your own life in the artistry of this natural sculpture : winged one , © by maureen shaughnessy dance of the deer foundation read more about huichol indian spiritual traditions see more photos of the above contemplative garden in progress previous post about the design of this contemplative garden more about spring garden cleanup tasks 7 comments saturday , april 5 the waterwise garden : principles of xeriscaping last year i wrote a post about w orld water day . in that post , i have many links to xeriscaping resources , water conservation articles and other relevant web resources. you might want to read it , in honor of this year 's world water day tomorrow march 22 , 2008 as well as earth day on april 22 , 2008. this year i am posting again about water conservation , with a number of photographs of gardens i have designed around helena , montana , using the 7 main priciples of xeriscaping , or , as i like to say , waterwise garden design. see divide magazine article featuring photos of some of my garden designs. a colorful drought-tolerant vine that also smells delicious and attracts hummingbirds and butterflies , this hardy honeysuckle vine also create shade and privacy on the back patio. front yards do not have to be just a few shrubs and trees surrounded by expanses of thirsty lawn. if you have a small property , make use of the front yard to create usable outdoor rooms. this waterwise garden provides plenty of privacy and several different activity zones in a little over 900 square feet. what was originally an open , dry lawn now has a 6 ft privacy fence , arbor and gate , two patios , a shade pergola and a colorful xeriscaped garden. ( see concept sketch below ) more often than not , suburban back yards are just a weekend mowing and watering chore. why not replace a huge lawn with a series of decks that are not only more attractive and easier to maintain -- but add to the square footage of your liveable space ? this deck in a waterwise landscaped back yard provides at least four different " rooms , " one specifically designed for watching sunsets. a privacy fence creates a whole different feeling in the backyard , making it perfect for quiet visits , reading or shaded dining on hot summer evenings. birds are attracted to the running water in the pond , and butterflies feed on flowering perennials and vines. xeriscapes can include water features. here , an overflowing urn appears to flow into a dry stream bed. the bright blue color and sound of bubbling water create a focal point in this garden. pondside plantings include native irises , corkscrew rush and tufted hair grass which will mature to a graceful arching clump grass xeriscaped front yards do not have to be all gravel , juniper , yucca and potentilla. in fact , a well-designed xeriscape can look much more attractive and welcoming than a mostly-lawn entry garden. here , sumac , hosta and native ferns share a plant bed next to the front porch , where a japanese " rain chain " directs roof runoff into a drainage pipe disguised by a dry stream bed of black rocks. spilling onto the stone paved front patio are drought-tolerant groundcovers such as creeping thyme , artemisia and snow-in-summer. a xeriscaped entry garden with just the smallest circular lawn for a cool green sitting spot. the rest of this front yard is slate walkways and patio , a mediterranean-style gravel garden , and planted terraces with aspens for shade and privacy. slate paving provides a comfortable spot for guests to approach the front garden of this home. steps leading down into the entry garden are flanked by aspen trees , daylilies , ornamental grasses and colorful flowering perennials. a grand entry experience greets guest to this home built on a steep slope above the road. there is no lawn at all in this xeriscaped garden. instead the slope is tamed by a series of stone terraces and slate steps that create lots of liveable space on an otherwise unusable slope. the dramatic focal point of this planting is karl foerster feathered reed grass. enter this driveway through a small grove of native aspens mulched with smooth river rock. the aspens frame visitor 's view of this grand brick home in the helena valley. a drainage problem prompted design of this dry stream bed to handle roof runoff during storms. boulders and pebbles meander through drought-tolerant shrubs and perennials with a clump of aspens. daylilies , siberian iris , coreopsis , potentilla , russian sage and arctic willow make a striking accent planting near the front door of this home. xeriscapes can include vines such as this hops vine to cover unsightly fences and block walls , or to create shade and privacy as in this photo. here , the hops grows on a trellis on the west side of a porch , creating a cool spot to sit outside on hot summer evenings. in our hot , dry helena summers , shade is an important landscape element and fits well with any xeriscape design. here , a pergola attached to the south side of this home provides shade not only for the stone patio , but also for some of the plants in the beds around it. honeysuckle and clematis vines are planted at the base of each post to eventually grow up and over the pergola. aspens planted in clumps augment the pergola 's shade as they mature. a cedar pergola planted with vines shades this stone patio and bench-height retaining wall. xeriscape principles followed in this design include thoughtful planning , low-volume irrigation , drought tolerant plants located in groups according to their water requirements , low-maintenance , improved soil , shredded bark mulch to retain soil moisture , extremely small lawn area and a native grass meadow. a xeriscaped back yard has two circular stamped-concrete patios shaded by a small aspen grove , stone terraces planted with native drought-tolerant plants and a very small lawn area. this could be a front garden or back yard dining area. there is no lawn at all in this xeriscape. instead the homeowners chose to install a paved patio surrounded by this stone retaining wall. paved area tend to retain heat and can get uncomfortable in our hot summers. this patio has lots of cool shade provided by aspens and other trees , vines climing the walls and a cooling water feature that splashes down the stone wall , crisscrosses the patio and spills into a small reflecting pool. plants are grouped according to the sun and water requirements , making watering and maintenance easier. an alternative to lawn grass : these pavers are spaced a few inches apart with grass planted between them. this allows rainwater to permeate as well as gives visual interest and breaks up the expanse of hard material. a native grass meadow was planted on this slope after construction of the home had disturbed the soils. the designer used all xeriscape techniques and mostly native plants to connect this contemporary home to it 's natural surroundings in the hills south of helena. an alternative to the big front lawn : a native grass meadow with boulder terracing punctuated with drought-tolerant mostly-native shrubs , trees and perennials. to reduce the amount of bluegrass lawn in this front yard , the owners of this helena valley home put in large , bermed plant beds with many native plants such as aspen , potentilla , juniper , dwarf pine and artemisia. the soil was improved before planting and under the river rock mulch is a low-volume drip irrigation system to reduce the amount of bluegrass lawn in this front yard , the owners of this reeders village home installed several large , mulched plant beds with drought-tolerant plants such as amur maple , flowering crab , potentilla , blue fescue , blue oat grass , rocky mountain juniper , dwarf spruce , snow in summer and artemisia. the soil was improved before planting and under the mulch is a low-volume drip irrigation system . this lakeside home replaced half of it 's thirsty bluegrass front lawn with a meandering gravel path , stone steps and a perennial garden under the mature trees. this is how visitors approach the front entry : much more welcoming than it was before these changes. one principle of xeriscaping is to group plants into zones according to their growing requirements , especially water requirements. here , an isolated bed of shade-loving plants separates a lower patio from the upper one. hosta , maiden pinks , lady fern and coralbells thrive in the same bed. to be continued ... check back for more photos , more details and more inspiration ! 9 comments saturday , march 29 earth hour tonight , march 29th : make a statement tonight , march 29 , 2008 join millions of earth residents in making a statement about climate change by turning off your lights for earth hour , an event created by the world wildlife fund climate change project. earth hour was created by wwf in sydney , australia in 2007 , and in one year has grown from an event in one city to a global movement. in 2008 , millions of people , businesses , governments and civic organizations in nearly 200 cities around the globe will turn out for earth hour. more than 100 cities across north america will participate , including the us flagships – atlanta , chicago , phoenix and san francisco and ottawa , montreal , toronto and vancouver. today , at 8 : 00pm your local time , please switch off the lights in an effort to make a statement about climate change. better yet , turn off all non-essential electricity in your home of workplace for at least that one hour. experience the quiet of no-electricity ! along with many other corporations supporting earth hour , google is darkening their search page to promote earth hour. darkening the search page ( making it a black background ) daves absolutely no energy , nor does it change anything at google headquarters. they are doing this to raise awareness among the millions of people who search google everyday -- hopefully , just having this unusual black google page will make people wonder what it 's about , and hopefully they 'll take the time to learn about earth hour . 0 comments google_ad_section_end older posts home subscribe to : posts ( atom ) like it ? share it ! winter inspiration maureen yep : that 's me good reads : tim mick & physics gabe josh sam 's life keep track of me subscribe to my feed networkedblogs start networkedblogs blog : water : : earth : : wind : : fire topics : nature , design , gardening join my network networkedblogs end begin blogarithm subscribe button end blogarithm subscribe button blogs i like bitterroot carl chiefbiscuit christina corey dana-lynn dannygregory dave at via negativa dean who wanders in ontario endment : small remnant fleur-ange 's flowers jenny jim jocelyn maya 's granny joyce karen kathya 's chocolocateria kati kellyrae keri kerrdelune kim lara lindasmanymuses liz loretta mb meg weaves megan who is not martha michelle nancy 's pcq pam pam in vermont penelope pepek pepek 's poetry rachael robert sharon susannah tammy tara thea whorled leaves community planting & design essentials botany photo of the day cornell landscape arch cornell woody plants cyndi 's catalog of catalogs dave 's garden plantsearch hortclick l.arch image resource midwest plant database osu plant database plant delights plant hardiness plantamerica plantsearch plantfinder seeds of change terrain terraserver maps tree guide trees : 9 things to know ui plant database writing dictionary.com elements of poetry merriam-webster simply haiku thesaurus.com tinywords haiku family * my art/photoblog * my husband 's woodworking gabe 's blog gabe 's website kathy & jerry 's sailing blog our family blog previous blatherings ▼ 09 ( 2 ) ▼ may ( 2 ) book of fours by joyce ellen davis sam 's last road trip ► 08 ( 11 ) ► oct ( 1 ) ► jun ( 1 ) ► apr ( 1 ) ► mar ( 7 ) ► jan ( 1 ) ► 07 ( 58 ) ► dec ( 2 ) ► nov ( 1 ) ► sep ( 3 ) ► aug ( 3 ) ► jul ( 6 ) ► jun ( 8 ) ► may ( 5 ) ► apr ( 13 ) ► mar ( 6 ) ► feb ( 5 ) ► jan ( 6 ) ► 06 ( 129 ) ► dec ( 12 ) ► nov ( 5 ) ► oct ( 10 ) ► sep ( 4 ) ► aug ( 1 ) ► jul ( 1 ) ► jun ( 10 ) ► may ( 16 ) ► apr ( 9 ) ► mar ( 11 ) ► feb ( 23 ) ► jan ( 27 ) ► 05 ( 168 ) ► dec ( 15 ) ► nov ( 23 ) ► oct ( 14 ) ► sep ( 23 ) ► aug ( 23 ) ► jul ( 10 ) ► jun ( 16 ) ► may ( 1 ) ► apr ( 9 ) ► mar ( 12 ) ► feb ( 10 ) ► jan ( 12 ) other posts about : announcements ( 4 ) art ( 23 ) artists ( 2 ) biomimicry ( 1 ) birds ( 3 ) blog carnival ( 4 ) blogging ( 1 ) books ( 9 ) calendars2006 ( 12 ) calendars2007 ( 6 ) collage ( 6 ) design ( 9 ) drought ( 1 ) earth ( 8 ) entertainment ( 1 ) environment ( 6 ) family ( 6 ) festival of trees ( 9 ) fire ( 1 ) food ( 5 ) friends ( 18 ) furniture ( 1 ) gardens ( 47 ) greenliving ( 18 ) health ( 3 ) helena ( 2 ) home ( 6 ) homemade dog food ( 4 ) humor ( 3 ) inspiration ( 8 ) kids ( 5 ) landscapedesign ( 27 ) leaves ( 1 ) life ( 3 ) lyrics ( 1 ) meadow ( 1 ) meditations ( 3 ) montana ( 7 ) music ( 3 ) myartwork ( 5 ) myphotos ( 124 ) nativedesign ( 3 ) nature ( 11 ) newyear'sday ( 1 ) other blogs ( 1 ) painting ( 2 ) perennials ( 1 ) petfood ( 1 ) pets ( 16 ) photography ( 65 ) photos ( 4 ) poetry ( 28 ) poetrythursday ( 4 ) politics ( 3 ) quotes ( 1 ) reading ( 10 ) reviews ( 1 ) sam ( 37 ) seasons ( 30 ) sketchbook ( 6 ) slideshows ( 3 ) social change ( 2 ) spirit ( 8 ) sustainability ( 10 ) trees ( 9 ) visual poetry ( 1 ) water ( 4 ) wildfire ( 2 ) wordplay ( 1 ) writing ( 17 ) xeriscaping ( 2 ) youtube ( 1 ) spacer for skins that want sidebar and main to be the same height end content-wrapper start of statcounter code end of statcounter code site meter xhtml strict 1.0 networkedblogs start networkedblogs blog : water : : earth : : wind : : fire topics : nature , design , gardening join my network networkedblogs end end outer-wrapper
