start container start header things of random coolness . start banner advertisement end banner advertisement end header start navigation end navigation start content 2014 stendig calendar. september 27 , 2013 massimo vignelli ’ s iconic stendig calendar. commissioned in 1966 by the furniture company stendig , massimo vignelli designed the now iconic stendig calendar . the massive 4 foot by 3 foot calendar is a black and white grid of numbers and letters set in the helvetica typeface. the calendar was snapped up by the museum of modern art for its permanent collection before a single calendar was printed. vignelli is known for designing many of the world ’ s most recognizable corporate identities , including that of american airlines , as well the iconic signage for the new york city subway system. the calendar itself is an exercise in white space. “ for us , the space outside the type is more important than the type itself , ” vignelli said. since its inception , the modernist calendar has gone on to become a firm fixture in the offices and homes of creatives worldwide . the 2014 edition of the stendig calendar is available now at zoma design store . comments ( 0 ) — jonni cheatwood. january 16 , 2013 intriguing and beautiful. i don ’ t know much about this artist , or his work , but i love the new grace series by jonni cheatwood. i ’ m seriously tempted to buy some ( they ’ re available to buy here , by the way. ) see more work from jonni cheatwood at jonnicheatwood.com . comments ( 0 ) — stendig calendar. november 8 , 2012 massimo vignelli ’ s iconic stendig calendar. commissioned in 1966 by the furniture company stendig , massimo vignelli designed the now iconic stendig calendar . the massive 4 foot by 3 foot calendar is a black and white grid of numbers and letters set in the helvetica typeface. the calendar was snapped up by the museum of modern art for its permanent collection before a single calendar was printed. vignelli is known for designing many of the world ’ s most recognizable corporate identities , including that of american airlines , as well the iconic signage for the new york city subway system. the calendar itself is an exercise in white space. “ for us , the space outside the type is more important than the type itself , ” vignelli said. since its inception , the modernist calendar has gone on to become a firm fixture in the offices and homes of creatives worldwide . the 2013 edition of the stendig calendar is available now at zoma design store . comments ( 0 ) — cardboard fireplace . check out these beautiful cardboard creations. i ’ m loving the work of berlin based multi-disciplinary designer bartek elsner and his cardboard sculptures , especially this fireplace in the street . see more of his cardboard work at the paper stuff . comments ( 0 ) — landcarpet. october 26 , 2012 ariel views from your sofa. i absolutely love the special one-off hong kong landcarpet created by florian pucher . while not as detailed as the one-off hong kong piece , the rest of the landcarpet series are equally as clever . see more of the landcarpet series at florianpucher.com . comments ( 0 ) — in bed with invader. april 25 , 2012 watch the invasion as it happens ! if you ’ ve been vigilant whilst wandering any of the world ’ s major cities , you will have noticed the tile mosaics of arcade game characters pasted to numerous buildings and landmarks. this is the work of french artist invader . the short film , in bed with invader , spends one night following the artist around paris as he carries out his work . comments ( 0 ) — infra by richard mosse. january 19 , 2012 beautiful , yet tragic , imagery. you ’ ve got to check out the photographic series infra by richard mosse . it ’ s a radically different manner to depict a conflict , in this case the ongoing war in the democratic republic of congo. the entire series is shot on a discontinued infrared film original developed for military reconnaissance and captures an invisible spectrum of infrared light which renders landscapes in vivid hues of crimson and hot pink . you can buy infra at amazon . comments ( 0 ) — buzzihood by alain gilles . “ can we go somewhere to talk ? ” i love the idea behind the buzzihood design by alain gilles . the design provides an acoustic cocoon that gives people a quieter and more private space to take their calls. it also means everybody else doesn ’ t need to hear your one-sided conversations ; they need to fit these on all trains asap ! comments ( 0 ) — mwm graphics / matt w. moore october 4 , 2011 evolution of the “ vectorfunk ” ! it ’ s no secret that i ’ m a big fan of mwm graphics / matt w. moore , and i ’ m always blown away by the evolution of his mural work . however , this new development is something else ; i can ’ t even tell you how much i ’ d love to own one of these new pieces . check out more from mwm graphics / matt w. moore . comments ( 0 ) — arcade light switch. june 20 , 2011 relive your wasted youth. remember a time before x-box , playstations & wii ? a time when you would go to your local games arcade and pump a pocket ’ s worth of coins into your favorite games cabinet ? now you can remind yourself of those days every time you turn on your lights with the arcade light switch , a light switch made using tradition arcade game cabinet push buttons . buy the arcade light switch by alephdesign on etsy . comments ( 0 ) — next page . start menu information . homepage . archives . say hello . rss feed . email subscription . twitter . amazon store . links . the cool hunter . design * sponge . cool hunting . design spotter . josh spear . moco loco . reluct . designboom . core 77 . design addict . sensory impact . bldgblog . apartment therapy . contemporist . dezeen . notcot . bltd . crown dozen . coolboom . beautiful/decay . graphichug . random fashion coolness . delitous . zoma design store . amazon links by text-link-ads sponsored links . end menu end wrap google analytics starts google analytics ends
