a compilation of products , furniture , jewelry , architecture and artists that float our boat . further examination : dropdown menu widget by shailan.com ( http : //shailan.com ) v1.9 on wp3.3 menu type : navmenu_57 tags architecture art follow the leader illustration photography prints the working proof automotive books events furniture graphics holiday home decor accessories glassware kitchen lighting office tableware interviews kids outdoor packaging pets product design reviews skate stationery technology tools us video wearable jewelry shoes web archives 2011 may april march february january 2010 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2009 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2008 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2007 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2006 december november october september / dropdown menu widget twitter bar start twitter bar end eye- candy wednesday , august 14th , 2013 icarus_13 ft. sat one & roids posted by sean tagged : illustration , video closed tuesday , august 13th , 2013 the working proof : madame lolina – crow hat new print release : this week marks the third print the working proof has released with artist madame lolina . it is pretty obvious that we think she is a unique talent with a flare for creating soft , meaningful works that lean into the world of fantasy and imagination. the print crow hat to benefit kids in need foundation is no exception. i am in love with the black , white and grey pallet of this piece , contrasted by the figure ’ s soft pink lips. everything in this image feels soft and harsh at the same time , a balance madame lolina seems to execute perfectly in every piece . i often draw crows in my artwork , because i like the black color , smooth feathers , and strong beaks of crows. for this work , i thought that it would be interesting to express living animals as a part of fashion. if the crows change their minds and fly away , the hat will be also disappear . madame lolina ’ s other works , communion_my unicorn and red riding hood can also be found at the working proof . this print is available in multiple sizes. it was digitally signed by the artist. the 8 × 10 and 11 × 14 prints are numbered by the working proof , and the 16 × 20 prints come with a numbered certificate of authenticity. learn more here . madame lolina chose to pair her print with the kids in need foundation because their mission is to ensure that every child is prepared to learn and succeed by providing free school supplies nationally to students most in need . posted by sarah tagged : art , prints , the working proof closed wednesday , august 7th , 2013 the motivation a skate documentary ? about a contest series ? contests have come a long way since the savannah slamma. the motivation follows the top few skaters in street league. i ’ m more interested in cole ’ s interviews as the old dude up there than the younger kids. hasn ’ t been that long since he was a young gun in in bloom . posted by sean tagged : skate , video closed tuesday , august 6th , 2013 adidas springblades the springblades are so crazy looking. i wonder what they feel like . posted by sean tagged : shoes , technology closed wednesday , july 31st , 2013 swatch & art – mathieu mercier nice case and graphic on the face of this swatch art by mathieu mercier called the stone from your heart posted by sean tagged : accessories , graphics closed tuesday , july 30th , 2013 himalayan 4,500km adventure some of the most awe inspiring and simultaneously terrifying cliffside roads and rickety bridges on this gopro -filmed dirtbike trek through the himalayas . posted by sean tagged : automotive , travel , video closed monday , july 29th , 2013 raid71 – butterflies great poster for art v cancer by raid71 posted by sean tagged : uncategorized closed friday , july 26th , 2013 nike free flyknit if the technology to make the nike free flyknit exists , then it should be possible to make it look cooler. but i like the idea of a sock with a sole on it . posted by sean tagged : shoes closed thursday , july 25th , 2013 jordan xx8 woah. jordan xx8 ′ s in serious patterns . posted by sean tagged : uncategorized closed wednesday , july 24th , 2013 the working proof : chris rubino – so it goes so it goes , by chris rubino . 15 % of the sale of this print goes to 826 national . new print release : this week the working proof is teaming up with artist chris rubino to bring you his print so it goes to benefit 826 national. i love the comfortable feel of this print , as if i ’ m sitting on my couch looking at my own overflowing bookcase. i also enjoyed reading more about artist chris and his inspiration for this piece : the print ” so it goes ” was initially conceived of and realized as a large scale painting , but has been reworked to live as a smaller print now. thinking about creators i ’ ve admired , i made this tribute to the life and words of the great author , kurt vonnegut. the viewer can see a few of his famous titles as well as phrases written by the author . chris has chosen to pair my print with 826 national , a charity that has been doing great work for most of the 21st century . this print is available in multiple sizes. it was digitally signed by the artist. the 8 × 10 and 11 × 14 prints are numbered by the working proof , and the 16 × 24 prints come with a numbered certificate of authenticity. learn more here. read our interview with chris rubino here. you can buy the print here . posted by sarah tagged : art , prints , the working proof closed 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 older » last » sub- people // who we are anna corpron , editor sean auyeung , editor betty bo ra kim , contributor // us elsewhere submerge | facebook | twitter notcot // submissions we created a handy-dandy submissions form . please submit your latest and greatest projects to us this way - it 's much more effective than sending us an email. we look forward to seeing what you are cooking up ! sub- projects // the working proof // brevity our sponsors want to advertise on sub-studio ? email us for rates . the sub-studio design blog. copyright 2006-2011. site designed and built by sub-studio . entries ( rss ) and comments ( rss ) 21 queries. 0.292 seconds . wp_footer start of statcounter code end of statcounter code
