love made visible tina & peter , martha stewart weddings end bigimage i had the pleasure of designing the wedding invitations for my friends tina & peter awhile ago and now their sangeet and wedding is featured on the front page of martha stewart weddings ! for their hindu wedding , tina wanted a colorful and cheerful wedding invitation inspired by a favorite textile pattern with touches of gold foil — her and my favorite. their whole wedding was absolutely stunning so please make sure to check it out . this blog has been in severe neglect in the past few years but new and exciting things are a-brewing. until my new space is up and running , please stay in touch through email , twitter , pinterest and instagram . i will be sure to write again when my new online home is ready. xo photos : a couple of cameras . as featured in martha stewart weddings , real weddings . end posttext posted on february 10 , 2014 in personal work , wedding 2 comments end metadata end post peter som pre-fall 2012 end bigimage boyish pretty at peter som . from the peter som pre-fall 2012 collection. see all the looks on vogue.com . end posttext posted on january 18 , 2012 in fashion 4 comments end metadata end post thakoon pre-fall 2012 end bigimage tons of cozy texture at thakoon . from the thakoon pre-fall 2012 collection. see all the looks on vogue.com . end posttext posted on january 18 , 2012 in fashion no comments end metadata end post nina ricci pre-fall 2012 end bigimage perfectly beautiful at nina ricci . from the nina ricci pre-fall 2012 collection. see all the looks on vogue.com . end posttext posted on january 18 , 2012 in fashion 3 comments end metadata end post dior couture end bigimage spied some images from dior couture on hanneli ’ s blog and couldn ’ t keep them to myself. lensed by patrick demarchelier , dior couture is a collection of portraits from dior haute couture collections spanning from 1948 to 2008 . left : sasha pivovarova. right : jac jagaciak. photographs by patrick demarchelier . end posttext posted on january 7 , 2012 in fashion , photography one comment end metadata end post milly spring 2012 end bigimage loved the prints at milly . from the milly spring 2012 collection. see all the looks on style.com . end posttext posted on september 20 , 2011 in fashion 5 comments end metadata end post « previous entries end # content pink footer priya is twenty-nine. she lives in new york city. she art directs advertising for a luxury jewelry brand. she loves fizzy lemonade , ladur ã © e macarons , jean schlumberger jewels , vintage fashion advertising , audrey hepburn movies and letterpressed paper. she also loves her work. people i heart donald glover fifi lapin frank william miller , jr . ismat mangla jessica hische julia s . mindy kaling nicole lecht punam bean rion nakaya the head turban linkcol design stars beast pieces design work life design * sponge oh happy day oh joy ! oh , so beautiful paper sideshow press simple pretty simple song stitch design co . unworn wit + delight linkcol style mavens 100 layer cake b for bonnie garance dor é note to self sea of shoes snippet & ink style me pretty the beauty department the coveteur the sartorialist this is glamorous me , elsewhere email instagram pinterest twitter linkbloc1 categories advertising art beauty books cheap chic children desi design fashion film food home illustration jewelry letterpress limited-edition art music new york city news nirali magazine personal work photography sites i heart stationery surface design tabletop typography wedding archives by month 2014 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2005 : jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec colophon i like to share the things that catch my eye. i hope you find as much inspiration in this as i do . love made visible was designed by me and coded by the fabulous arun kale and stefan pause . typefaces used are archer , coquette , ff meta serif and museo sans . love made visible is a member of the delightful blogs network . contact me or suggest a tip ! search search submit linkbloc2 footerstuff # pinkfooter end pink footer footer : site footer for links , copyright , etc . copyright © 2005 – 2014 love made visible rss feed end footer end # page site meter end site meter
