< ! [ endif ] it ’ s nice that printed pages here london company of parrots this at there first broadcast jobsboard homepage_top skin about regulars publications events projects facebook twitter youtube vimeo instagram tumblr rss search search search championing creativity across the art and design world behind the scenes backstage at every amazing festival ever with photographer pooneh ghana liv siddall • 14 august 2014 studio audience podcast kim kardashian 's selfie book , roald dahl and more in this week 's studio audience liv siddall • 14 august 2014 hello and welcome to studio audience , the it ’ s nice that podcast. this week the host is liv siddall and she ’ s joined by maisie skidmore and james cartwright – the triad. wherever you listen to us , on the bus , the toilet or a whim , we hope you enjoy our cultural chit chat. you can listen via the soundcloud below or subscribe via itunes over here . graphic design behind the design of a musical forest installation with patrick fry amy lewin • 14 august 2014 taking on the art direction of a musical installation touring about british woodlands sounds like a somewhat complex task. to be honest , i wasn ’ t sure what a musical installation set amongst trees would even involve. i assumed it wasn ’ t anything to do with singing pixies . film mollie mills ’ enrapturing short film about a johannesburg ballerina maisie skidmore • 14 august 2014 there can be no question that ballet is one of the most enrapturing art forms out there , but i sometimes wonder if the archetypal representation of the dance as graceful , pristine and effortless quite does justice to the physicality of it. how refreshing is it to watch a short film about a ballerina , that doesn ’ t airbrush over the fingerprints on the mirror , the beads of sweat on the shoulder blades , the tremble of a lip as a dancer exhales ? photography youthful hedonism and an extreme case of sunburn from brian pescador james cartwright • 14 august 2014 palm springs-based photographer brian pescador is leading a double life. by day he makes his living chopping locks and trimming beards as a travelling barber , and by night ( also quite often during the day , but presumably when he ’ s not cutting hair ) he ’ s an incredibly talented photographer. naturally as a resident of the coachella valley , he ’ s got a wealth of stunning scenery to go out and shoot whenever he sees fit , but the best of his photography marries the people and places of his homeland into an idyllic portrait of youthful hedonism . graphic design scottish kids design amazing posters for the edinburgh fringe festival amy lewin • 14 august 2014 unless you ’ ve recently relocated from a teeny tiny little hut atop a snowy , sheep-covered mountain miles from the nearest village , you probably know that the edinburgh festival fringe is on. it ’ s only the world ’ s biggest arts festival , after all. what you might not know is how it all began. back in 1947 , when corned beef was still a dietary staple and your granny was grateful for her bread and dripping sandwiches , eight rogue theatre troops gatecrashed the edinburgh international festival. these unofficial performers staged shows on the outskirts of the festival , and so “ the fringe ” was born . film beautiful , terrifying footage of a snow-topped alaskan ridge maisie skidmore • 14 august 2014 you know those cds of whale music you can buy at the tills in garden centres ? if , rather than listening to those , everybody in need of a couple of minutes of downtime halfway through the afternoon could just take the time to watch the ridge , the world would be much , much better place. it ’ s kind of a spectacular bit of filmmaking ; filmed for camp4 collective in denali national park , alaska , the camera sweeps across mountains buried in fluffy snow , rocky ridges brandishing over barren expanses of white and mountain faces that look curiously like old men ’ s faces ( watch out for the moustachioed bloke at 1.40 ) . graphic design design studio bleed create an incredibly sharp identity for an office building maisie skidmore • 13 august 2014 this identity that design studio bleed have created for a new office building called monier in oslo , norway , is heavily founded on the principles of the building itself , as well as the history of the site it has been built on. the idea for the logo is derived from the building ’ s three different window shapes , the studio explains , which are a key aspect of the building ’ s cubistic architecture . photography an in-depth interview with corinne day 's agent and friend , susie babchick liv siddall • 13 august 2014 the curious work of corinne day seems to rear its ever-appealing head every now and again , just to remind us of a time gone by that we weren ’ t part of , and will never fully understand. gaining worldwide notoriety with her famous , career-making shots of a teen kate moss on camber sands for the face , corinne ’ s groundbreaking photographs of quintessentially british , black-soled urchins were to become stuff of legend. contrived shoots of hired models were never her thing , instead corinne lifted her lens to those closest to her – the ones doing the washing up , smoking fags out of windows , watching telly. the fact that all her friends were rebellious models was just a bonus . art extraordinary sculptures and paintings from artist lee marshall james cartwright • 13 august 2014 it ’ s plain to see that lee marshall ’ s artwork is a product of the digital age ; his smooth gradients , vectorised objects and figures apparently created in an early version of corel draw all evoke the atmosphere of an abstract digital landscape. but lee ’ s creations all exist in the real world as paintings , drawings and sculptures , bringing a unique physicality to environments we ’ d expect to experience on a flat screen. the norwich school of art graduate has been perfecting this signature style since his student days , but with an ever-increasing list of group and solo shows to his name we ’ re expecting more great things from lee over the coming months and years . illustration stunning new updates from the ever-charming ryan gillett james cartwright • 13 august 2014 we ’ ve been harping on about what a terrific illustrator , and all-round cheery chap ryan gillett is for quite some time now , and it seems people have been taking notice. ryan now counts the likes of virgin , the sunday times , anorak and smith journal among his many clients , who keep him busy at all hours on commissioned projects. it ’ s not hard to see why either ; ryan ’ s cheerful scenes made with the sensibilities of a traditional print-maker ought to excite even the most severe clients. but he still finds time to do the nice things that remind us what a stand-up guy he is ; like producing screen printed postcards to send out to all his fans ( including us ) . when they arrived the other week they brightened up our days , and also made us realise it was about time to praise ryan once again … photography krista long photographs people as they shoot out of waterslides maisie skidmore • 13 august 2014 there are several times in your life when you look quite ridiculous and have no choice but to embrace it ; at the dentist , with a mouthful of rubber glove and some green lunge , for example , or when you ’ re playing twister and you have to stretch from one end of the mat to the other with a single left foot. when you come out the end of a water slide is a pretty solid one too , as krista long points out ; you ’ re too busy trying to retrieve your bikini bottoms from where they ’ ve disappeared to without swallowing vast amounts of pool water to even think twice about what you ’ re doing with your face. ( hint , you look hilarious. ) animation naughty summer animation with a twist , check out cream tease liv siddall • 13 august 2014 ‘ t is the mating season ! let us breed ! summer is hot , and not just in terms of the weather. everyone looks great in summer with their shiny hair , tanned skin and lack of layers – people you didn ’ t look twice at in winter are now incredibly alluring , which is why there are so many babies born in winter. seed animation studio are in on this notion , and have made a somewhat steamy little animation entitled cream tease – a scintillating series of moving images that lead up to a summer twist to cool you off before you pop. if this was an actual film it probably wouldn ’ t be allowed on it ’ s nice that , hence the beauty of animation. nice one seed studio , phew ! photography excellent photographs championing the power of girls by jeff boudreau liv siddall • 12 august 2014 there ’ s a reason behind the popular notion that black and white photography makes people appear better looking – it ’ s true. not saying for a minute mind you that the girls that jeff boudreau has photographed of late aren ’ t some of the most beautiful , dewy creatures walking the earth , but there is a certain charm about their monochromatic portraits that you perhaps wouldn ’ t get with colour film. jeff is from florida but now lives and works in london , filling his days with editorial fashion shoots and advertising briefs. this latest personal series compares his subjects to wild flowers in the dark – beautiful . illustration murderous tinder dates and femmes fatales in laura callaghan ’ s first date maisie skidmore • 12 august 2014 thank god for laura callaghan ! in an illustrated world saturated with images of pretty girls sweetly baking cupcakes , making daisy crowns and chasing after boys , she injects a much-needed dose of the sinister femme fatale . her characters have undercuts and piercings instead of being clad head to toe in lace , they read lesbian magazines instead of vogue and they wear vials of their lovers ’ blood round their necks. what more could you want from a role model ? view archive homepage_right_1 this week ’ s most viewed articles photography 40 years of photographs of one woman and one pair of pants amy lewin • 07 august 2014 in films , books , plays and works of art , one item can become piled high with layers of meaning ; desdemona ’ s handkerchief , matisse ’ s apple , dorothy ’ s ruby slippers. in lucy hilmer ’ s photography series birthday suits , one pair of white pants comes to stand for more than itself. baring almost all , lucy stands before the camera ; sometimes defiant , sometimes distressed , most often smiling. there ’ s something deeply personal and poetic about these pictures which made me want to learn more about the woman – and the pants – at the centre of them. so over to lucy , who answers a few of my questions . art check out these hilarious collages made from high-end fashion campaigns maisie skidmore • 08 august 2014 let ’ s all give a big round of applause to the people behind instagram who , in creating a convenient photo-based social media outlet , also paved the way for instagram artists. if instagram is the impressionist salon of our time , then right at the forefront of this digital gallery is kalen hollomon , whose own brand of photo-collage is a tongue-in-cheek giggle at both the fashion industry and at commuters in general , and is hugely popular with it . photography photographs document the life of a hoarder with smiles and sadness amy lewin • 07 august 2014 welcome to george ’ s world. george fowler is a compulsive hoarder and over the year that she spent photographing him corinna kern came to “ understand the human nature that lies behind his unusual condition. " looking at these pictures , you can tell that there ’ s a closeness between the young woman behind the camera and the old man in front of it . photography krista long photographs people as they shoot out of waterslides maisie skidmore • 13 august 2014 there are several times in your life when you look quite ridiculous and have no choice but to embrace it ; at the dentist , with a mouthful of rubber glove and some green lunge , for example , or when you ’ re playing twister and you have to stretch from one end of the mat to the other with a single left foot. when you come out the end of a water slide is a pretty solid one too , as krista long points out ; you ’ re too busy trying to retrieve your bikini bottoms from where they ’ ve disappeared to without swallowing vast amounts of pool water to even think twice about what you ’ re doing with your face. ( hint , you look hilarious. ) photography emma hartvig 's beguiling photographs of nudes evoke still life paintings maisie skidmore • 12 august 2014 i always find it quite beguiling to look at contemporary artwork which looks like it belongs to another time , and emma hartvig ’ s oddly captivating images are a prime example of this kind of displacement. born in sweden but based in london , emma photographs nudes , somehow succeeding in imbuing the human form with all of the surreal static energy of a vermeer painting. her photographs are shot through with shimmering satin and velvet which serves to frame her subjects as though they were pieces of half-decayed fruit carefully laid out ready to paint. what ’ s more , she does all of this through photography , pushing her camera to function as though it were a set of oils. the result is impressive and quietly beautiful . homepage_right_2 it ’ s nice that regulars nicer tuesdays this month 's nicer tuesdays explores the art of storytelling ! it 's nice that • 13 august 2014 this month we are joined by four creatives who are exploring the art of storytelling in unique and inspiring ways . opinion was this italian gallery right in removing the chapman brothers ' work ? james cartwright • 13 august 2014 this week editor james cartwright wonders whether it was right to remove the chapman brothers ’ controversial sculpture piggyback from a roman gallery or whether it ’ s an affront to creative freedoms. as ever your comments are welcome below … nicer tuesdays see olivier kugler 's talk from our travel themed nicer tuesdays it 's nice that • 13 august 2014 next up in the talks from our travel-themed nicer tuesdays is reportage illustrator olivier kugler. olivier was hooked on drawing since receiving a tintin book when he was seven , although his dad ’ s attempts to encourage him to sketch outdoors came up against his desire “ only to draw superheroes. ” now olivier has established a practice for creating compelling visual narratives which use individuals ’ lives to tell bigger stories. “ i don ’ t draw spectacular things but i love little details , ” olivier said , and you could see that in the way his pen picked out the pope calendar in the flat of a former mafia boss , or the heartbreaking trivialities in a refugee camp . bookshelf an education in european publishing and playtime on golden cosmos ' bookshelf amy lewin • 12 august 2014 when you ask a couple of creatives who work in a former kindergarten in east berlin ( as we learned in an interview many moons ago ) to show you their book collection , you hope to see some pretty cool and quirky publications. doris and daniel of golden cosmos have not let us down . my favourite music video connan mockasin tells us about his favourite music video liv siddall • 11 august 2014 we ’ re all big fans of connan mockasin , we listen to him in the studio all the time and we were pretty sad to miss him at wilderness festival over the weekend. when we asked him to do a my favourite music video feature we thought he ’ d pick something truly obscure and spectacular that we had never seen before – and he did. the recording artist has chosen a music video from an odd corner of the internet , and has told us why he loves it so much. to be honest we ’ re hoping connan ’ s next vid is as great as this one. he says it gets better after a few listens , and yeah – i guess fingers crossed maybe it will … homepage_bottom best of the web ifl science : world 's fastest camera takes 4.4 trillion frames per second 14 august 2014 eye magazine : when penguins begat puffins 14 august 2014 rookie : women in shakespeare 14 august 2014 brownbook : a brilliant article about morocco 's annual rose festival 14 august 2014 interview : an interview with author renata adler by christopher bollen 14 august 2014 i-d : modern day rebels , and the return of the suit 14 august 2014 oyster magazine : american photographer john kilar 's seattle 14 august 2014 bbc : thames fort up for sale 14 august 2014 the guardian : the scribble pen that lets you draw in 16 million colours 13 august 2014 dezeen : a proposed snowflake-shaped hotel to watch the northern lights 13 august 2014 the new york times : the antilabel helping alternative artists 13 august 2014 rookie : how to press flowers with monika and emma 13 august 2014 view all best of the web sign up to the it ’ s nice that newsletter list facebook twitter youtube vimeo instagram tumblr rss it ’ s nice that 21 downham road london n1 5aa + 44 ( 0 ) 20 7739 5222 legal terms & conditions privacy policy site credits designed by int works fonts aper ç u and georgia further information work with us advertising faqs contributors rob alderson james cartwright liv siddall maisie skidmore amy lewin follow twitter facebook instagram vimeo rss regulars my favourite music video bookshelf weekender opinion introducing friday mixtape view all regulars publications printed pages spring 2014 the annual 2013 printed pages winter 2013 printed pages autumn 2013 view full archive events nicer tuesdays here 2014 view full archive podcast studio audience categories advertising animation architecture art fashion film furniture design graphic design illustration interactive miscellaneous music photography product design publication sculpture set design monthly archive august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 it ’ s nice that network it ’ s nice that printed pages here first broadcast company of parrots this at there jobsboard generated at : 2014-08-14 17 : 40 : 07 + 0000
