log in | register end logincontent end login do redesign ads 08.14.14 end header home archive topics jobs places books credits contact contributors michael bierut john foster jessica helfand adam h. levy debbie millman rob walker berlin erik spiekermann london rick poynor adrian shaughnessy paris v é ronique vienne end navigation end leftcolumn jessica helfand logocentrism for paul rand , a modern mark was a simple mark , and the secret to making things last lay in keeping them simple . nervous in nantucket this week dear bonnie encourages a new-ish employee to speak up ! steven heller user-friendly paul rand paul rand did not coin the term “ user-friendly. ” he would have hated its trendy sound . rob walker “ kern your enthusiasm ” hilobrow 's “ kern your enthusiasm ” is a smart , insightful series about lettering and typography . franc nunoo-quarcoo the rand house : a house to work and live in while not a large house , it felt just right , as if it had been made to measure for every interaction and every function . michael bierut thoughts on “ thoughts on design ” on paul rand ’ s 96-page masterpiece , “ thoughts on design. ” the editors paul rand : observer emeritus celebrating the centennial of a one of our most beloved american design icons . john foster a sampler of rocks rocks are the stuff of castles , homes , weapons , making fire , creating wealth and beauty . dissed in denver this week dear bonnie reminds a 19 year old intern what it means to be a 19 year old intern . rob walker the art of redaction a batch of visually “ redacted ” photos , courtesy of the fbi . adam harrison levy hiroshima lost and found the lack of visual evidence of the atom bomb ’ s effect has helped us to forget its devastating impact. to see is to remember . jason santa maria on web typography : smart quotes punctuation is a system . mark yoes elinor evans : some truths from the master the artist , educator , and architecture guru elinor evans turns 100 . john foster a mississippi delta road trip photographing the south on a week long journey . sara jamshidi black hand : iranian banksy ? black hand is one of the numerous underground artists in iran and his exhibition is neither the first nor the last underground exhibition . partnering in peoria what questions do you ask to start a business partnership off right ? dear bonnie has a few . v é ronique vienne taylor holland ’ s scenic tour a photograph is at first a document. crop it , and it becomes a picture. trim it further into a square and you ’ ve got a “ sign ” — a potential icon . rick poynor the mysteries of france : a gothic guidebook guide de la france myst é rieuse , illustrated by roman cieslewicz , is a surreal beast of a travel book . john foster looking down : an interview with photographer bryon darby photos of grids and airplanes . sam jacob daniel weil : timeless daniel weil ’ s clocks might tell the time , but that ’ s not their real job . wondering in westport this week dear bonnie advises a do-everything-wonder-kid about his portfolio . john foster strange ink works by untrained artists who found inspiration to produce unique works despite a host of impediments . observed redesiging the parking sign nikki sylianteng was sick of getting parking tickets. her solution : redesign the signs . the editors parametric posters from muirmcneil new posters by muirmcneil demonstrate the parametric principles of their typeface designs . adam harrison levy tracks of my tears as rose-lynn fisher 's photographs make clear , your tears are yours alone and each one is different . rob walker an end of things the life of a thing , the death of an object — and maybe a new life to follow ? at liberty auction in pembroke , georgia . john foster shadwell shams : a tale of two forgers “ there ’ s a sucker born every minute. ” jan almquist perceiving deeply on teaching to see , a film by andrei severny ; produced by edward tufte . aggrieved in atlanta + bumming in brooklyn advice for designers who receive unsolicited opinions from friends and those whose clients have bad taste . justin zhuang east and west : graphic design in singapore today since british advertising agencies brought modern graphic design into singapore after the second world war , a thriving community of independent studios has emerged in this former colony in southeast asia . john bertram these events did not occur in black and white the history of cover design for this way for the gas , ladies and gentlemen . john foster whirlwinds , snowdrops + big bangs : vintage fireworks labels happy 4th of july ! jennifer kabat exhibition as inquiry : an interview with kieran long guns , shoes and cheap jeans : kieran long has added all of these to the victoria & albert museum ’ s permanent collection. at a moment where “ design ” can seem no more than a synonym for style and status , he ’ s busy challenging that notion . laura tarrish hunter | gatherer : text as textile evidence of fabric embellished with needle and thread has been found as far back as the cro-magnon days ( 30,000 b.c. ) . the artists featured here , writing with stitchery , challenge our expectations of what is commonly considered a domestic art . lost on long island + stuck in schenectady this week dear bonnie tackles what to do when your client stops returning your calls , and how to get your brain moving . the editors the new design observer welcome to the new design observer . v é ronique vienne two monumental shows in paris : one large , one small there are two shows you shouldn ’ t miss if you happen to be in paris this summer . inkahoots black , red + gold a conversation about colonization and visual resistance in australia . creative opportunities design observer social media à la carte newsletter signup observer jobs spotlight end socialshare do redesign ads end rightcolumn end main contact | policy | support | terms of use © 2003-2014 observer omnimedia llc. “ design observer ” is a registered trademark of observer omnimedia llc . end container
