view mobile site advertisement javascript based showcase ad code control bar cool hunting browse by features categories popular search about subscribe contact jobs advertise design tech style travel culture food + drink video gift guide interviews word of mouth listenup link about it instagram city guides 3d printing / accessories / apple / apps / artists / bags / books / cameras / cars / furniture / hotels / menswear / music / outdoors / shoes / speakers / sustainability / watches / websites / whiskey / womenswear / go end control bar cool hunting show nav view desktop site cool hunting go design feature : studio visit : li ying ethereal metal sculptures hint at the beijing artist 's ongoing continuum with time culture feature : cool hunting video : 21 icons photographs of 21 iconic south african figures currently on view in johannesburg travel feature : locals surf school , rockaway learning how to surf in nyc has never been easier or more fun — just bring sunblock and good vibes start entries recent stories < a class = " expand " href = " / ? show_collapsed = 0 " onclick = " $ ( body ) .removeclass ( 'collapsed ' ) .addclass ( 'expanded ' ) ; infinitescroller.init ( '',2 ) ; return false ; " > expand < /a > < a class = " collapse " href = " /show_collapsed = 1 " onclick = " $ ( body ) .removeclass ( 'expanded ' ) .addclass ( 'collapsed ' ) ; infinitescroller.init ( '',2 ) ; return false ; " > collapse < /a > expand collapse studio visit : li ying ethereal metal sculptures hint at the beijing artist 's ongoing continuum with time by alessandro de toni in design on 14 august 2014 beijing , china , installations , li ying , metal , sculpture , site-specific , studio visits li ying is a young , beijing-based sculptor from hunan province , who 's gained increasing attention for her monumental metal artworks — the latest of which mesmerized audiences at a recent cafa postgraduate exhibition. we visited her studio in heiqiao village in the outskirts of beijing , a place where many emerging artists can still afford to find a peaceful nest in the middle of migrant workers ’ villages , old warehouses and railway barns . she is a pupil of master sui jianguo , who is the former chairman of the department of sculpture at cafa , and a renowned artist for his work with metals and granite. his “ jurassic age , ” the caged red dinosaurs standing in front of ucca , have become an icon of the 798 art district . at the core of her sculptures is a peculiar approach to space and time. “ from my earliest to my latest works , i see my artistic production as a continuum , i pursue the exploration of spacial relations : my own body , the artwork i create and its communication with the surrounding environment. time plays as well a key role as a continuum ; i never feel my artworks to be complete , i consider them parts of an ongoing process where time is a substrate where new connections can be built. " i like accidental aspects to be part of my creative process . in li ’ s early work “ time , ” her ideas about space and time take shape in a massive metal net structure which create a line of tension in the middle of an eight-meters-wide room. in a process ( which required three months of work ) , li welded — one by one — tiny bits of metal to create two suspended , organic-looking structures , which seem to grow toward each other. as she recalls , “ i started from an idea , a very simple sketch , i didn ’ t know what the outcome would have been , it was like something growing with me , day by day , a sequence of unexpected micro-events. i like accidental aspects to be part of my creative process. ” the mix of materials , and li 's fascination for the unexpected life of her creations , found an ideal medium in metal wire , a material which can be bended but still keeps its own inertia. “ it has its own strength but at the same time can give you an idea of lightness , like it was floating in the air , ” she remarks . in her 2013 series “ cishi - hechu ” ( which translates to " this moment - where " ) , wires of different colors are woven together with wood structures , visually overturning the balance of gravities and creating a continuous flow between the two media. as she points out , “ the flow continues in the surrounding space , in the shadows projected on the floor and on the walls , ” an aspect which makes her particularly sensitive to the features of the exhibiting space . her latest work “ jia - kong ” has a more explicit connection with the location where it was conceived. the artwork is jaw-dropping ; a suspended , life-sized skeleton made of thousands of almost-invisible metal filaments , which was originally built inside li 's old family home back in hunan , a few months before the whole area was torn down. the flow of relations between the artwork , the surrounding environment and the personal history here become extremely strong and poetic. as li explains , “ i saw a parallel between a skeleton made of thin wires and the fragility of my old home , at the same time i feel a sense of emptiness when i look at it , the same emptiness i feel for the disappearance of my old neighborhood , soon to be replaced by anonymous skyscrapers ” . thanks to her extraordinary talent and personal approach to sculpture , li has been awarded an art residency at yishu 8 in beijing. her artworks will be here showcased in a solo exhibition opening 22 november 2014 . studio images courtesy of alessandro de toni , installation images courtesy of li ying end article view related addthis button begin addthis button end advertisement advertisement humin 's intelligent contact app free for ios , a new hub for everyone you connect with by david graver in tech on 14 august 2014 apps , contact databases , ios apps , iphones , tech apps released today , humin is far more than a replacement for your native iphone contacts app — it 's a replacement for your phone app , as well. and while that might seem like a giant leap for many iphone users , what humin offers ultimately betters the entire experience. like other contact aggregators , the native contact app , facebook , linkedin , gmail and more are all drawn together in one unified database — which also happens to be visually stunning. the similarities , however , stop there. keeping on top of contacts has long been one of the most challenging processes , and can be a nightmare at times. as an offshoot , it has become one of the most complicated app functionality categories — and right now , humin is the best because it thinks differently . first , humin is very easy to use. after a quick set up ( during which humin requests permission to access all of the channels users want incorporated ) the app prompts users to verify their details. from there , the option exists to ping all those contacts for their own updates and verifications. while it 's optional , this guarantees accuracy and will ultimately lead to automatic updates down the line — keeping humin ever-current. this validation is one example of how humin differentiates itself. as much as it is a contact and phone application , it 's also a community of sorts — and one that 's always evolving . much like the iphone phone app , humin has a toolbar at the bottom with five options. a " favorites " section allows users to select and pin down the most frequently used contacts. demonstrating its own intelligence , humin actually populates this field during set up with those a users phone has most frequently communicated with , and then it lets the user organize or alter them. next in line , a " recents " tab reveals call history , voicemails and any updates that have occurred within contacts ( specifically humin verified ones ) . this feature , coupled with the " keypad " tab , allows users to forego the native phone app in its entirety. all of that functionality is right there within humin. the two additional tab options include the " add " button , for registering a new contact — which also geolocates the entry for an additional search option later on — and most importantly , the " contacts " button . selecting the " contacts " button reveals a search screen. users wo n't find contacts listed alphabetically. rather , users are given the opportunity to search absolutely anything : a name , a location , a company , or even a moment. and humin delivers. the app connects contacts with fundamentally human information : the moment of meeting , the location , and mutually scheduled calendar events. it 's all about connectivity and all of it is searchable. pulling up the desired contact reveals updates , information , images and the opportunity to call or text. it 's beyond comprehensive and it 's handy. but at the core of it all stands the context of relationships . according to co-founder and ceo ankur jain , " when we first started looking at contact applications , we realized how antiquated the alphabetically list is. we realized the problem itself was n't an issue with the contacts , but it was a search problem. the way our brain works , we think about the people we contact. " he then delves further into the app 's technological inspiration. " we started looking into the space and realized the list is not that different than what we were dealing with on the internet in the early '90s. people used to browse every single website on the internet , because the internet was in list form. now you can search for information the way you think with keywords. we thought , what if we can apply that concept to people. " we do n't want people to spend time on the app and away from the real world. we want it seamless and to create an emotional connection rather than taking that away . humin really is a more human approach to a contact database. " we wanted to build something that thinks the way you naturally do , " jain continues. " if we could accomplish that , then the product starts to disappear. you start to not even notice it. this lets you focus on real life. we do n't want people to spend time on the app and away from the real world. we want it seamless and to create an emotional connection rather than taking that away. " it 's also worth mentioning that humin does n't have access to any user communication , be that texts or emails , and no third party is ever used. so altogether , it 's a smart unified force that allows easy access to all contacts , and even boosts memories along the way . download the humin contact app free of charge through the itunes app store . images courtesy of humin end article view related addthis button begin addthis button end advertisement cool hunting video : 21 icons photographs of 21 iconic south african figures currently on view in johannesburg by cool hunting video in culture on 14 august 2014 art , art installations , chv , icons , nelson mandela , photography , south africa , video returning to africa for the second cool hunting safari in zambia , we made a stop in johannesburg to scope out the up-and-coming design scene. a few of our guests have strong ties to the city , one being wildlife and portrait photographer adrian steirn , whose renowned exhibit " 21 icons " was being featured at johannesburg 's museum of african design ( moad ) before beginning its world tour. adrian gave us some insight into his experiences photographing and interviewing each of the 21 iconic figures of south africa. check in next week for the start of our full coverage of the 2014 cool hunting safari . end article view related watch more videos addthis button begin addthis button end advertisement loading more stories.. . end entries sponsored recent interview : daniel lewis of brooklyn tailors interview : ricky hendry on tech-led fashion charged : high-tech summer essentials charged video : aerosyn-lex me š trovi ć maximize summer fun with birchbox man building a smarter bedroom luxury meets technology for the beautyrest black charged : cory arcangel 's art and apparel charged : five next-gen digital cameras interview : craig kanarick of mouth studio visit : li ying humin 's intelligent contact app cool hunting video : 21 icons spring mobile marketplace icedot : helmet crash sensor locals surf school , rockaway interview : experimental designer kiel mead saigon socialite shoes artist collaboration rugs by gur north korea : anonymous country advertisement coolhunting-v5-299x250-home fpo follow us addthis follow begin share on facebook facebook share on twitter twitter share on instagram instagram share on vimeo vimeo share on pinterest pinterest share on google_follow google share on youtube youtube share on rss rss addthis follow end subscribe to ch daily begin sendicate signup form subscribe to ch daily end sendicate signup form latest videos culture cool hunting video : 21 icons photographs of 21 iconic south african figures currently on view in johannesburg culture cool hunting video : magician doug mckenzie street magic meets technology with mind-bending performances from this contemporary illusionist culture cool hunting video : the heidelberg project on detroit 's east side , one man continues turning a whole neighborhood into an artistic haven culture cool hunting video : funland at the museum of sex from a boob bouncy castle to the mysterious tunnel of love , a tour of the erotic carnival and celebratory exhibition design cool hunting video : alex reben an alumni of mit 's media lab and nasa , this artist applies his engineering skills to create robots • • • • • advertisement cool hunting on twitter tweets by @ coolhunting advertisement coolhunting-v5-299x250-home end sidebar © 2003 - 2014 captain lucas , inc. | privacy policy | terms of use | about | subscribe | contact | advertise | made in nyc coolhunting-v5-widget chartbeat start parse.ly include : standard end parse.ly include quantcast tag end quantcast tag
