roadside scholar stuff i found on the highway of life home about gigi leonard , aka the scholar end header search : categories : art artists clay design flotsam & jetsam food for kids furniture glass green home accessories humor illustration interiors & exteriors let 's chat ! lighting metal miniviews mixed media paintings paper personal accessories photography sculpture textiles wood words links : armas design bb-blog because i can ’ t draw beholder bent objects better living through design bloesem bricolagelife dear ada design crush double takes eclectic detective fast grow the weeds feed the dog if it ’ s hip , it ’ s here more ways to waste time my marrakech nancy and burt needle ’ s edge poppytalk robot heart rods and ( s ) cones self taught artist technabob yellow monday from my photostream : browse by month : december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 the loop 5 questions for terry border ( bent objects ) posted by the scholar on december 3rd , 2009 filed under : artists , humor , miniviews , photography 12 comments » google_ad_section_start couldn ’ t we all use a good laugh everyday ? for quite some time i ’ ve been relying on indianapolis artist terry border ’ s quirky images that he creates for his website , bent objects , to get the job done ( you might recall that i ’ m a big fan ) . fortunately for all of us his talents were spotted by the right people , and just recently he released bent objects : the secret life of everyday things , a terrific book filled with his original , laugh-out-loud funny photographs. terry ’ s appealing images showcase loads of visceral humor to make you howl , but are tempered with just enough thought and emotion to make you look twice. think about it and look at that photo above ( which also happens to be the cover of the book ) – how many of us have ever felt like that potato chip walking in on his mate ? yup. now raise your hand if you want to know more about the brains behind this wonderfully creative operation … gigi : when i look at your collection of photographs , i ’ m immediately struck ( and quite impressed ) by your tremendously agile imagination. do you find that your ideas flow easily , or do you have a more methodical approach when putting a new image together ? terry : basically , the idea just comes from out of the blue , or i think really hard about an object , then later when i don ’ t expect it , my subconscious makes a connection. then i go “ hey , that works ! ” g : speaking of your subconscious , what ’ s the most outlandish idea you ’ ve had for an image but never photographed ? t : i honestly can ’ t think of one. if it ’ s a good idea , it gets made. â i started a more adult blog just so i didn ’ t ever have to censor myself . g : i know i howl out loud whenever your new images get published , and there is true freedom in the internet space , but i ’ m wondering now if you ’ ve ever shown your work in person and seen the impact it has up front and personal ? t : when i ’ ve given presentations to a group , it ’ s pretty cool to hear the laughs and get that kind of feedback. i enjoy that. â a lot of times though , i ’ m uncomfortable when an individual pages through my book for the first time with me there , and feels the pressure of “ getting it ” right away. some of my images take a second or two to come together in your head , and having me around while that happens ruins the enjoyment for the person , and makes me feel strange too . â g : i get that. i ’ ve had that feeling personally delivering my photographs to buyers and then wondering if they ’ ll like them in person . i ’ m curious to know if you have a favorite part of your process , e.g. , the handcrafting of the doodads or the actual taking of the photographs ? t : i would have two favorite parts of the process , i suppose. after i get a real vision for what the image is going to be about , and towards the end , when i ’ m really happy with the feel of it. in between those two points is a bunch of figuring things out . g : i ’ ll take the liberty of speaking for your fans here when i say you aren ’ t the only one who is happy when the image comes together at the end ! you bring a lot of joy to people with the unique elements of humor and surprise in your work. do you think you reveal any other aspects of your personality in your collection ? t : oh , sure. i think whenever we create anything , we reveal stuff about ourselves. there are some images in the book that show some problems i have and deal with. the only one i ’ ll mention is the “ at the party ” image , which is pretty autobiographical . g : hmmm. i think we ’ ve all been there. actually some of us might want to approach the one cheeto , er , person , that doesn ’ t seem to be like everyone else. good things can happen . i am cuckoo for cocoa puffs about your book and am secretly ( now openly ) hoping volume 2 is in the works. thanks so much for treating all of us to a lighthearted , whimsical way of looking at the world , and sharing with us how you do it. you ’ ve got serious skills ! t : my pleasure , gigi. thanks for talking about bent objects . pop over and say hi to terry on his website , or stop by his etsy shop . purchase the book online at borders , barnes & noble , amazon and amazon uk . it ’ s us $ 17.95 , and published by running press . need i mention that it would make a most excellent gift for someone with a great sense of humor ? yes. yes , i think i should . thank you terry ! google_ad_section_end 12 comments » snapshot sunday posted by the scholar on november 29th , 2009 filed under : photography 3 comments » google_ad_section_start google_ad_section_end 3 comments » stylish , graphic iphone cases by threadless posted by the scholar on november 17th , 2009 filed under : design , personal accessories 5 comments » google_ad_section_start much love to the hubs , but i ’ ve been secretly meaning to replace my boring , hand-me-down black cloth case for my iphone that he gave me with something splashy and fun. frankly nothing has appealed to me until i saw these super cool cases based on 2 popular designs from threadless , the beloved tee shirt company. these distinctive cases are compatible for the 3gs and 3g and are being distributed by griffin . â the pale blue case is birds of a feather by ross zietz , and the canary case is clouds within the thunder from joe van wetering . either piece would make a terrific gift for someone who appreciates good looks and bold , dynamic style . find the cases for us $ 34.99 each online at griffin or in person at apple retail stores , and learn more about the talented artists behind these designs at threadless . google_ad_section_end 5 comments » snapshot sunday posted by technabob on october 25th , 2009 filed under : photography 1 comment » google_ad_section_start google_ad_section_end 1 comment » snapshot sunday posted by the scholar on october 18th , 2009 filed under : photography 5 comments » google_ad_section_start google_ad_section_end 5 comments » the clever 2010 calendar by noa bembibre posted by the scholar on october 16th , 2009 filed under : design , paper , words 2 comments » google_ad_section_start the stylish , helsinki-based noa bembibre is back with her whimsical words in her calendar for 2010 , cats let nothing darken their roar . here are some highlights : with all this crummy weather we ’ ve been having over here , octagon , be nicer is especially appropriate . for the 5th year anniversary of making her calendar , noa is offering a limited edition of 500 and 2 sizes to choose from , price range $ 39-60 usd. get your name on the list and purchase the calendar beginning the 19th of october right here . google_ad_section_end 2 comments » brainy swim cap by atypyk posted by the scholar on september 30th , 2009 filed under : humor , personal accessories 6 comments » google_ad_section_start let ’ s give a tip of the hat ( or cap ) to those clever french folks at atypyk , who have designed the perfect swim cap for me to wear while taking those water aerobics classes this winter : more of the clever right here . google_ad_section_end 6 comments » snapshot sunday posted by the scholar on september 20th , 2009 filed under : photography 2 comments » google_ad_section_start google_ad_section_end 2 comments » next page » ad slot start ad slot end end loop subscribe to my rss feed follow me on facebook subscribe via email got a tip ? email me my book : 4x2 four seasons. two friends. one year. by gigi leonard & sandra soss book preview a good cause : 2009 art book project 37 artists raise funds for breast cancer charities by pawsforcharity book preview recent posts : snapshot sunday stylish , graphic iphone cases by threadless snapshot sunday snapshot sunday the clever 2010 calendar by noa bembibre brainy swim cap by atypyk snapshot sunday snapshot sunday snapshot sunday summertime fun - and a writing update snapshot sunday browse by tag : abstract acrylic animal art artist artistic beautiful bird california canada ceramic ceramics chair chicago clever collage colorful contemporary cool cotton delicate digital drawing england etsy fabric feminine fun funny furniture germany glass graphic handmade home ink italy jewelry lamp layered letterpress light limited-edition london luxury metal minimal modern nature necklace new-york organic original original-photo paint painting personal personal-original-photo playful porcelain pretty print recycled sculptural sculpture snapshot-sunday soft stationery stylish tabletop vase vintage whimsy wood wool google_ad_section_start ( weight = ignore ) begin footer do not deleting the credits , this theme is released for free under a dual license. the css ( stylesheet ) and images of this theme are released under a < a href = " http : //creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/ " > creative commons attribution 2.5 license < /a > , while the rest of the theme files are released under a < a href = " http : //www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html " > gnu gpl license < /a > . if you use our themes , it will be assumed that you have read and accepted the following terms and conditions , included in the license document . you may get the designer links removed for a small fee by contacting us. failing to do so is illegal. pls read the license document , included in the zip file of this theme for " terms and conditions " . i 'd appreciate the designer credits being left in unmodified , thanks in advance. feel free to contact us at headsetoptions.org for theme support , theme customization , premium templates , suggestions , or other queries , etc. thanks for your interest , and happy blogging ! footer copyright © roadside scholar | features elements of insomnia by headsetoptions + mandarinmusing | supported by free themes televisie | hosting by ( mt ) end footer google_ad_section_end start quantcast tag end quantcast tag
