banner reubenmiller archive subscribe about twitter contact carousel posts entry list sticky regular posts december 06 , 2012 the ultimate diy coffee cup sleeve i bought some disposable dixie insulair ® hot cups last night. but cool insulation-themed name aside , they did n't feel insulated ( read : blazing hot ) with coffee inside. so , i began digging around in the cupboards for a cup cozy or some other cup i could use . i spied these fire-engine-red chinet cups , which i picked up a costco some time back. i put my hot cup of coffee inside. it worked ! the ridged walls help to insulate and keep my hands cool. all it needed was a better fit , which was easily accomplished by cutting off the base of the cup . any similar cup should probably work , too. experiment with any large plastic cup that has some sort of texture or ridges in the walls and see what works best . signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links july 24 , 2012 izhar gafni 's cardboard bicycle i love this bicycle ! it 's made completely from cardboard. it can handle a hefty 308 pounds. it 's waterproof and it 's cheap. the bike costs only $ 60 for the standard model , or $ 90 if you opt for the extra attachments like a removable motor. with a production costs of only $ 9-12 , this eco-friendly bike could be the next solution to transportation woes for both developing nations and hipsters alike . signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links july 12 , 2012 messages printed on edge of business cards here ’ s a look at miller creative ’ s brand-spanking-new business card design. they are printed on bend-proof 98pt gray coverboard recycled paper , printed letterpress in 2 colors and then rubber-stamping of tiny messages on the card 's edges. see more . signature permalink | comments ( 1 ) technorati tags post footer links may 11 , 2012 reuben miller weekly roundup [ image via designboom ] now that it 's spring , there have been lots of around-the-house projects begging for attention. i 've also been looking at a lot of fresh inspiration. here 's a collection of things i 've been working on and cool things i thought you might enjoy seeing . i saw these awesome wine bottle illustrations by lydia nichols over at the dieline . speaking of the dieline , the package design conference in boston is around the corner. i plan to be there with yael ( she 's speaking on sunday ) . i decided i needed a second pair of glasses. i do a lot of work outdoors and in the workshop , so i need a second pair so i do n't screw up the one i have. i was looking at a bunch of styles over at warby parker . they must be pretty popular because i 'm still waiting for a bunch of styles to become available for home try-on. which style do you think i should get ? our studio , miller creative , just completed the redesign for cybele pascal 's blog. i think it looks pretty awesome . i finally got brave and started my trial of basecamp , which is a project management tool. unlike yael , i am very slow to embrace something new. basecamp seriously rocks. it 's perfect for managing our projects. all i need now is something useful to manage clients and potential clients . i thought this video was funny . my favorite wine right now is the coalition . it 's made by shirah wine company of california.the packaging was designed by miller . i recently spotted these over at designworklife . there are lots more of them at lomography . we recently had the opportunity to recommend keef for video production for one of our clients. they 're the creative genius behind the video for breukelen distilling . as a suprise gesture of thanks they sent us a bottle of breuklelen 's glorious gin ( seen above ) . the video kinda makes you want to get up and create something. [ branding and packaging by i love dust ] volkswagen used crowdsourcing to supply ideas for a futuristic concept car. they then turned the top ideas into these amazing concept videos. you can see the video here . now it 's time to wrap things up for the week , pull out some glasses and open the umbrella. the weekend is finally here. this is the song in my head for this time of day/week/year. it 's by john prine and mac wiseman . ( the original song was first performed by patti page ) have a great weekend . signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links april 24 , 2012 totoro nails just about everything hayao miyazaki and his group at studio ghibli create is legendary. one of my favorites is " my neighbor totoro " . well for some reason there seems to be a craze going on painting nails with the totoro characters . here is a how-to tutorial . signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links april 23 , 2012 tal avitzur 's awesome robots i just stumble across these awesome robots by artist tal avitzur. click here to see them all . continue reading " tal avitzur 's awesome robots " » signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links new jersey map signature permalink | comments ( 0 ) technorati tags post footer links august 02 , 2011 perscribe your personality away imagine the world of pooh without all the endearing idiosyncracies. this poster drives home the point of our overmedicated society. i kind of think pharmaceutical companies have a little bit of a slanted agenda. just a wee tiny bit. created by dan meth . signature permalink | comments ( 5 ) technorati tags post footer links february 22 , 2011 split happens split happens , by david schwen. buy the art print and have a happy , yellow day . signature permalink | comments ( 10 ) technorati tags post footer links january 27 , 2011 the jog ride ca n't decide if you want to go for a jog or a take a bike for a spin ? no problem - you can do both at once - at least according to todd kundla , who makes wacky mutant bikes like the above shoe bike. i 'm guessing this is a good workout machine - it must take a lot more muscle to pedal this beast than any standard-issue bike. photography by jay janner . signature permalink | comments ( 11 ) technorati tags post footer links next » sidebar1 sidebar2 advertsing_shared_ssc_reubenmiller_on reubenmiller subscribe subscribe by email : rm google search . . advertising animation architecture art bath & body books design fashion & style food & drink furniture gadgets graffiti great music home goods humor kids marketing photography plush sustainability technology toys video webtech space archives december 2012 july 2012 may 2012 april 2012 august 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 october 2010 august 2010 more.. . rmg footer © 2008-2012 reubenmiller. all rights reserved. all images and videos are subject to copyright by their owners. no images or videos may be downloaded , copied or used in any manner without the prior approval of the respective authors . start quantcast tag end quantcast tag begin comscore tag end comscore tag begin disqus tag end disqus tag
