skip links for text browsers skip to main | skip to sidebar imedagoze home + lifestyle design google_ad_section_start ( name = default ) core77 launches inaugural design awards an annual celebration of excellence , enterprise and intent new york , ny - a leading design community and resource , core77 announces its first annual international awards program , the core77 design awards , which pushes the envelope of competitions by employing an innovative , web-savvy format for submissions , judging and award presentation . representing 15 categories of design endeavor , ranging from products and packaging to service design and design for social impact , this ground-breaking platform reflects a comprehensive overview of the state of the industry . a truly global effort , the awards program embraces a fresh and transparent judging process. a selection of international design leaders , based in various cities around the world , will serve as jury captains. each of these individuals will recruit four other judging partners to work with them on a particular design category. these teams will be judging simultaneously in different locations and time zones worldwide . each team will announce winners via livestream broadcast to create a rolling and continuous feed of the results over a period of several days. video will enable the jury to share not only the results of their deliberation but also give insight into the reasoning and methodology behind their decisions . to further enhance the story-telling process , video submissions from entrants will reveal the " real story " behind their designs and make these awards more poignant and personal . this competition takes a new approach to student entries , which will be welcomed in each of the 15 categories. these entries will be judged alongside other students in the category of their choice . to create momentum for the awards event , core77 has enlisted noted graphic designer alex lin of studio lin to design the identity program and emerging industrial design talent rich , brilliant , willing to design the trophy. thirty trophies will be awarded ; one to each of the professional winners and student winners of every category. in the build-up to the results , the core77 design awards website will offer visitors glimpses into the process of making these artifacts . this award program celebrates core77 's long and rich connection with the design profession and its practitioners. the goal of this bold new endeavor is to serve the international community , honor the design industry and to provide the general public with insight into the objects and information that populate our world . design categories and jury captains · products/equipment : julie lasky , editor of change observer , new york , new york · soft goods/apparel : peter kallen , design director of nau , portland , oregon · furniture/lighting : max fraser , editor & publisher of london design guide , london , uk · transportation : lars holme larsen , co-founder of kibisi and founder of kilo design , copenhagen , denmark · graphics/branding/identity : steven heller , design writer and co-chair of the mfa design as author program at the school of visual arts , new york , new york · packaging : mark christou , creative director of pearlfisher , new york , new york · interactive/web/mobile : jon kolko , executive director of design strategy of thinktiv and founder & director of austin center for design , austin , texas · service design : fran samalionis , innovation coach for bt financial group , sydney , australia · design for social impact : ashoke chatterjee , development volunteer and former director , national institute of design , ahmedabad , india · interiors/exhibition : ( co-captains ) mark dytham and astrid klein , klein dytham architecture , tokyo , japan · dyi/hack/mod : ( co-captains ) eric j. wilhelm , ceo of instructables and co-founding partner of squid labs , christy canida , community & marketing director of instructables , san francisco , ca · strategy/research : mark vanderbeeken , senior partner , strategic communications , experientia , turin , italy · design education initiatives : elizabeth ( dori ) tunstall , associate professor in design anthropology and associate dean , learning and teaching at swinburne university , melbourne , australia · speculative objects/concepts : branko lukic , founding partner of nonobject , palo alto , california · never saw the light of day : aric chen , design journalist and creative director of beijing design week , beijing , china competition timeline · call for entries : march 8 · entry deadline : may 3 · livestream announcement of winners : mid-june · formal announcement of winners : end june · awards event : end june about core77 since 1995 , core77 has served a devoted global audience of designers ranging from students through seasoned professionals. core77 publishes articles , discussion forums , and an extensive event calendar in addition to hosting portfolios , job listings , and a database of design firms , schools , vendors and services. core77 also provides a gathering point for designers and enthusiasts alike by producing design competitions , lecture series , parties , and exhibitions . for more information , click here . posted by imedagoze on tuesday , march 15 , 2011 saturday in design 2011 - singapore another exciting event is coming to singapore.. in may 2011 ! woohoo.. ca n't wait ! below is some brief of what the event is all about : saturday in design is an annual trade event for the design community. it began in sydney in 2003 and takes place on alternative years in sydney and melbourne . it involves premier designer furniture , finishes , fixtures and lighting showrooms opening their doors on a saturday to allow architects , designers , students and design-savvy members of the public to enjoy the product they specify , in a showroom environment . saturday in design has traditionally been an opportunity for local and international products from hundreds of reputed brands to be launched to thousands of members of the design community in one day . look out for saturday in design event program here , and click here for free online registration . thanks , grace ! posted by imedagoze on saturday , february 05 , 2011 aakkoset shelf / room divider by kayiwa , finland a press release from kayiwa came in this morning. it 's hard not to blog when you see something that you genuinely like. : ) here 's aakkoset shelf / room divider . it takes a meticulous 4-week to build one aakkoset , uniquely combines the very latest manufacturing technology with traditional craftsmanship. in brief , medium density fiberboard ( mdf ) is fed through a 5-axis computer numerically controlled ( cnc ) router. it is thoroughly glued , pressed and primed before a deep rich paint job is first mechanically applied and then hand finished. aakkoset comes with a 3-year limited warranty . you may use aakkoset to hold your things , or leave it empty as a room divider. it comes in in black , blue , green , orange , red , violet , white and yellow. plus , you could choose your own color , size , material or special finish with kayiwa personalization service. nice. how about using mirror for aakkoset ? ; - ) posted by imedagoze on monday , october 25 , 2010 tags : finland , furniture happy 45 , singapore ! here 's some pictures taken from the ndp location , few days before the actual event. for those who 's witnessing the parade tonight... lucky you ! : ) have a great national day ! ! posted by imedagoze on monday , august 09 , 2010 tags : events , personal , singapore oh my.. it 's zee avi. . recently stumbled upon her bitter heart song , i was smitten with her sweet voice instantly. catch zee avi , a 23-year-old from sarawak , malaysia , on these dates ! posted by imedagoze on monday , august 02 , 2010 tags : malaysia , video fashion. fun. friendship. and more fashion . my friend and i went to the sex and the city 2 gala premiere last night. it was indeed a fun movie to watch. bear in mind this movie is all about fashion and comedy among girlfriends. do n't try to find wisdom in the storyline , you 'd frustrate yourself throughout the movie. it 's just director michael patrick king ’ s honest depictions of women 's insecurities over career , marriage , motherhood , luxuries and hormones. so if you 're up to for some laughter and a major fashion parade , this is the movie. expecting more... you might have to watch something else. sex and the city 2 opens tomorrow , may 27. click here for a peek into carrie 's closet . posted by imedagoze on wednesday , may 26 , 2010 tags : gorgeous , pretty sex and the city 2 trailer from hp a much anticipated movie. tomorrow is the gala premiere of sex and the city 2 , and i 'm goiiiiiing ! ! : ) thanks to hp for the kind invitation . posted by imedagoze on monday , may 24 , 2010 tags : events , video i am a girl by the girls with glasses have you seen the girls with glasses ? " i am a girl " is the theme song of the girls with glasses show , an original piece co-written by the hosts , brooke white and summer bellessa. i was instantly smitten with the above video when i saw it. every single frame is such a delight , filled with sweet tunes , fabulous outfits and great props. i bet you 'd love it too. : ) posted by imedagoze on wednesday , may 19 , 2010 tags : gorgeous , united states , video korean pop music videos geez , i feel like a teenage girl all over again. soon after a friend introduced me to korean pop music videos , i ca n't stop searching for more. here are the selected few. you could find more here , here , or here . enjoy fellas ! ; - ) posted by imedagoze on monday , april 26 , 2010 tags : korea , video happiness.. . is seeing liberty of london for target collection. available from march 14. and yes , yes , yes... at target prices , these gorgeousness certainly wo n't last for long... have i mentioned it 's liberty of london ? ; - ) get your dose of happiness here . seen at happy mundane . posted by imedagoze on wednesday , february 17 , 2010 tags : furnishings , gorgeous , home accessories , lifestyle , pattern , pretty , tableware , textile , united states gong xi fa cai this year is rather special , having valentine 's day to fall on the first day of chinese new year. so i snapped some pics and made up the image above , to wish you a prosperous new year , and a happy hearts day ! enjoy your holiday ! : ) posted by imedagoze on friday , february 12 , 2010 tags : personal surrealist laser-cut handbags never heard of them before. never thought such things even existed until i saw these images from james piatt in my inbox. as james mentioned , all handbags are beautifully crafted , detailed , and do not contain any stitching. tabs and slots are laser cut in the leather which allows each piece of leather to interlock together. it 's a combination of old-world craftsmanship and high technology. hm.. yes , i have to agree with him. a clever combination. looove the pursuader ™ , but i wonder if it could pass through the airport security without lengthy , repetitive screenings and checks , yes ? no ? well , i 'd say , if you had this bag with you , you 'd definitely turn many heads , and perhaps , have some onlookers gasping , or.. screaming ( excitedly , or frantically ) , or simply have ppl being so wonderfully generous , friendly , then run away from you. aah fun , just by imagining it. : ) pursuader ™ comes in copper mirror ( as shown on top ) , blue alligator , black , and natural skin . i 'd go for the copper mirror . it 's shiny , it 's reflective. : ) click here to see more of james piatt handbags. thanks , james ! posted by imedagoze on thursday , february 11 , 2010 tags : art , lifestyle , united states shiny reflective objects my mind has been hooked on shiny reflective objects lately.. a total distraction. in a much desirable way , of course. : ) ( top ) digit chandelier by emmanuel babled , daisy marc jacobs ( silver ) . ( middle ) river island 's chainmail slouch bag , ted noten 's lady k bag 6/7 . ( bottom ) day goose by day birger et mikkelsen . posted by imedagoze on tuesday , february 09 , 2010 tags : home accessories , lifestyle , lightings , trend future is smart integrated wallet i was rather hesitated to write this post when amelia first suggested to blog a trend . this could bore you to death , and it might sound nonsensical to some of you. but hey , every girl is entitled to dream. so let me bore you for a little while. : ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ mobile technology i 'm sure you are all aware with the increasing number of your family and friends using smartphones these days , and how often they 're using them. i know one 15-yr old in jakarta , indonesia , who 's been an avid user of blackberry ( bb ) for a few months now. last holiday i met him again at a family event , and asked if any of his friends was using bb , he replied , " all of them. everybody in my class has one. " a startling fact , but it 's happening. a recent article by nytimes , shows young americans nowadays are becoming proficient in using mobile technology. " on average , young people spend about two hours a day consuming media on a mobile device , the study found. " -- nytimes. some people ( teens or adults ) even have more than one mobile device. in addition to smartphones , they could have ipod , kindle , or soon , the newly-launched ipad . so it wo n't be surprising if future generations would have more mobile devices than a pile of receipts/cards in his/her bag. below is a short explanation on why i think smart integrated wallet could possibly be part of future lifestyle. what is smart integrated wallet ? smart integrated wallet is a thin light mobile device with bluetooth technology that works pretty much like ordinary wallet , but smarter. it stores data like credit card details , reward/membership cards , identity cards , cash amount , and receipts. it compiles a log of daily transactions. and it shows numerical and graphical stats of spending behavior based on recorded transactions. every smart integrated wallet is password protected and comes with a unique walletid. and just like ordinary wallet , smart integrated wallet could come in various brands. why smart integrated wallet ? with increasing hectic and demanding lifestyle , future generations will become more critical in running their daily lives. they will require control over information and personal enjoyment. instantaneous and accuracy are key. in short , the world at their finger tips. no delays , no lost cards , no queuing , no time wasted. knowing all credit cards , reward/membership cards , identity cards , cash , and receipts are constantly intact and available on demand , will be a necessity. smart integrated wallet would eliminate the possibility of misplaced cards/cash/receipts. it would eliminate the need of physical monetary notes , thus eliminate the need of atm machines and money changers. when travelling , no more scouring around the city looking for your_international_bank atm machine or money changer. banks/merchants/institutions would only need to issue card details , no actual card needed. no time wasted in searching for misplaced cards , reporting lost cards , and getting replacement cards. how would smart integrated wallet work ? to enable smart integrated wallet , a password will be required. to store credit card/reward/membership card details , you would need to enter the data to the device. this would be as easy as updating contacts in smartphones. these are the only data that could be edited in smart integrated wallet. to receive/store cash amount , a fund transfer to your registered walletid in the currency of your choice , could be done through internet banking by using your smartphone. to store identity cards , the related government agencies would need to send the details ( name , photo , address , etc. ) directly to your walletid. any changes to identity cards ( new home address , etc. ) could only be made through the gov. agencies involved. to make payment using smart integrated wallet , data could be transferred via bluetooth to merchant 's device. prior to data transfer , another password will be required. receipt then would be sent by the merchant to your smart integrated wallet via bluetooth. daily transactions would be recorded in the log. numerical and graphical stats would be generated on a specified time basis. credit card/reward/membership card details , log and stats can be uploaded and saved into your home computer , and thus be printed when needed. these saved data would serve as back-up data should you lose your smart integrated wallet , and these would easily be restored into a new walletid. of course , if you lost your wallet , you 'd lose the cash amount and identity cards in it. the government agencies who produced your identity cards would then need to be notified with the change of walletid. this would work pretty much the same as if you lost your identity card now. you could deactivate/reactivate your walletid by using your smartphone , data would then be encrypted/decrypted respectively , if you lost your smart integrated wallet momentarily. otherwise , walletid could remain deactivated. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ so what do you think ? did i get carried away , just to blog a trend ? ? haha. i sure did. : ) you must 've thought i 've gone insane with this post. well , you could be right. after all , everybody needs a dose of insanity in life. ; ) thank you for reading ! posted by imedagoze on tuesday , february 02 , 2010 tags : personal , trend keraton yogyakarta , indonesia we went to yogyakarta , indonesia , last december , mainly to see biennale jogja x . and while we were there , we thought it 'd be great to let the kids see other cultural tourism spots as well , like the borobudur and keraton yogyakarta . keraton yogyakarta , built in 1755 by sultan hamengku buwono i , is currently the palace of sultan hamengku buwono x , the sultan of yogyakarta and the governor of yogyakarta special region ( daerah istimewa yogyakarta ) . above are some pics i took of keraton yogyakarta. i was in awe to see a ceiling with layers of intricately carved moldings like that . love it. click here to see more pictures. enjoy ! posted by imedagoze on monday , january 25 , 2010 tags : indonesia , lifestyle google_ad_section_end older posts home subscribe to : posts ( atom ) linkwithin sharethis about me imedagoze i 'm a mother of two who has great admiration for the creators behind every beautiful and creative things. this blog is my playground. welcome . view my complete profile start of flickr badge www. flick r .com this is a flickr badge showing public photos from imedagoze . make your own badge here . end of flickr badge subscribe to imedagoze start of statcounter code end of statcounter code twitter updates twitter updates follow me on twitter tags architecture ( 4 ) art ( 63 ) australia ( 21 ) ceramics ( 6 ) children ( 12 ) china ( 2 ) denmark ( 19 ) design shops ( 47 ) events ( 27 ) finland ( 13 ) france ( 24 ) furnishings ( 78 ) furniture ( 45 ) germany ( 9 ) gorgeous ( 81 ) home accessories ( 34 ) hong kong ( 1 ) iceland ( 3 ) india ( 5 ) indonesia ( 7 ) interior ( 5 ) italy ( 5 ) japan ( 27 ) kitchen ( 10 ) korea ( 9 ) lifestyle ( 36 ) lightings ( 33 ) malaysia ( 1 ) netherlands ( 7 ) norway ( 2 ) pattern ( 55 ) personal ( 51 ) photography ( 10 ) portugal ( 3 ) pretty ( 58 ) singapore ( 26 ) spain ( 4 ) stationery ( 11 ) surface ( 20 ) sweden ( 21 ) switzerland ( 1 ) tableware ( 19 ) textile ( 55 ) trend ( 4 ) united kingdom ( 26 ) united states ( 36 ) video ( 15 ) vintage ( 3 ) wall decoration ( 30 ) wallpaper ( 28 ) yummy ( 4 ) design blogs another shade of grey bientot demain bloesem decor8 design finland designklub design milk design * sponge designers ' block uk desire to inspire emmas designblogg happy mundane home rejuvenation inredningsbloggen ma-decoration.net madebygirl pan-dan poppy print & pattern style court design resources design taxi designspotter hemfeber land + living luxurydesign.fr mary padian 's finds moco loco new designers re . resetdesign salon.ru swissmiss three layer cake top design wiki blog archive ▼ 2011 ( 2 ) ▼ march ( 1 ) core77 launches inaugural design awards ► february ( 1 ) ► 2010 ( 18 ) ► october ( 1 ) ► august ( 2 ) ► may ( 3 ) ► april ( 1 ) ► february ( 5 ) ► january ( 6 ) ► 2009 ( 43 ) ► december ( 2 ) ► november ( 5 ) ► october ( 6 ) ► september ( 2 ) ► august ( 6 ) ► july ( 9 ) ► april ( 3 ) ► march ( 3 ) ► february ( 3 ) ► january ( 4 ) ► 2008 ( 63 ) ► december ( 3 ) ► november ( 3 ) ► october ( 2 ) ► september ( 3 ) ► august ( 2 ) ► july ( 5 ) ► june ( 1 ) ► may ( 9 ) ► april ( 5 ) ► march ( 7 ) ► february ( 11 ) ► january ( 12 ) ► 2007 ( 123 ) ► december ( 6 ) ► november ( 3 ) ► october ( 10 ) ► september ( 16 ) ► august ( 17 ) ► july ( 8 ) ► june ( 4 ) ► may ( 10 ) ► april ( 13 ) ► march ( 9 ) ► february ( 15 ) ► january ( 12 ) ► 2006 ( 149 ) ► december ( 5 ) ► november ( 10 ) ► october ( 17 ) ► september ( 8 ) ► august ( 11 ) ► july ( 4 ) ► june ( 2 ) ► may ( 13 ) ► april ( 17 ) ► march ( 16 ) ► february ( 22 ) ► january ( 24 ) ► 2005 ( 55 ) ► december ( 18 ) ► november ( 10 ) ► october ( 1 ) ► september ( 6 ) ► july ( 8 ) ► june ( 12 ) followers spacer for skins that want sidebar and main to be the same height end content-wrapper end outer-wrapper
