navigation bar is included from a module , so you can edit it once and reuse it across your blog oh joy about products books past work press blog contact twitter facebook google + youtube instagram pinterest entries show all other posts after ad this displays your posts , without any post you 've marked as " featured " { oh joy sips } home brewed bar in pasadena... 14 aug 2014 .entry-header i 'm not a big coffee drinker , but tea is my jam. one of my cravings lately ( well , maybe always ) is a great boba milk tea. boba tea can be hard to find if you 're not in an area with lots of asian eateries that usually sell them , but in los angeles , more and more places are offering the chewy addition to their existing coffee and tea menu . home brewed bar in pasadena has fun options like salted caramel milk tea , vietnamese iced coffee , vanilla berry truffle , plum oolong tea which you can add regular or mini boba tea to. just talking about it gives me a hankering right now.. . home brewed bar | 39 n arroyo pkwy , pasadena , ca | 626.397.2887 { photos by casey brodley for oh joy } .entry-body food adventures , los angeles + local finds , sweet treats comment count 1 comments facebook like .entry-footer-info .entry-footer .entry-content .entry this displays your posts , without any post you 've marked as " featured " my latest splurge... 13 aug 2014 .entry-header since we 've been saving up for a house , i 've been trying not to buy too many things that we do n't need. but recently i did take the plunge and splurge on something that has changed my life.. . ...a king-sized bed. bob and i had been sleeping on what i thought was a pretty good bed for the last 10 years. but with this 2nd pregnancy , i found it a lot harder to sleep. i take up about 3/4 of the bed with all my tossing and turning , and bob is usually lucky to get the other 1/4 ! i just wanted more space to spread out without worrying that i was kicking him in the face in the middle of the night . so we decided to get a king-sized bed , and we are so much happier. i 've slept better than ever and actually have long , vivid dreams again because i am sleeping so soundly. i wonder why we did n't do it earlier as i 'm convinced a big bed is a serious marriage saver ( along with separate closets ) ! do you have a splurge like this that felt kind of tough to do in the moment but so worth it after-the-fact ? and , p.s...how amazing is this bedding by arro home ? { photos by brooke holm for arro home , styling by marsha golemac } .entry-body hello , my name is joy , my house is my home comment count 42 comments facebook like .entry-footer-info .entry-footer .entry-content .entry this displays your posts , without any post you 've marked as " featured " oh joy for target fall / launches sunday ! 12 aug 2014 .entry-header hooray ! i 'm excited to share a little peek with you at the newest oh joy for target fall collection that comes out online and in stores ( in the us and canada ) this sunday , august 17th ! this collection continues to bring you easy and festive mix-and-match party and entertaining pieces that make any party look custom in no time. i 'm really excited to be including some ceramic pieces this fall that will becomes staples you can use year round . you 'll see a ceramic pitcher , mugs , salt and pepper shakers , a pie dish , and a cutting board along with more paper and melamine pieces like as serving bowl , new goblets , the tiniest party hats around , and — you guys , paper plates and napkins with metallic foil ( just wait till you see them in person ) ! here 's a sampling of some of my favorites from the collection that you can find starting sunday ! like last time , some things will sell out fast , so get them while you can. the collection will be available for just 6-8 weeks ( and get what 's left from the summer collection on sale now ) ! p.s. next week , i 'll share a fun video we put together showing different ways we used the new collection and you can follow along right here for more.. . { environmental photos by thuss + farrell and styling by scott horne . product images by target. } .entry-body business ( mixed with pleasure ) , my house is my home comment count 49 comments facebook like .entry-footer-info .entry-footer .entry-content .entry this displays your posts , without any post you 've marked as " featured " currently snacking on... 11 aug 2014 .entry-header i 'm soaking up the last bits of summer and all that goodness that is summer fruit right now. so , what do you do when you 're craving peach pie in the summer ? you make a peach pie milkshake , of course. trust me on this one and make one immediately ! peach pie milkshake ( makes 1 large or 2 small milkshakes ) you 'll need : - 5 scoops of honey cinnamon ice cream ( we used one from snoqualmie ) - 1 fresh peach - 1 tbsp honey - a pinch of cinnamon - a pinch of nutmeg - 1 cup vanilla almond milk - crushed graham crackers for garnish ( optional ) here 's how : 1. preheat oven to 350 degrees . 2. slice the peach in half and remove the pit. place the two halves on a baking dish so the skin is face-down on the pan . 3. add 1/2 tbsp of honey to the center of each peach half , then dust with a touch of cinnamon and nutmeg ( not too much since the ice cream has cinnamon as well ) . 4. bake for 10-15 minutes until peaches are tender . 5. finally , slice the halves and place in a blender along with the ice cream and almond milk. blend until smooth. add graham crackers to garnish and enjoy ! { photo by casey brodley , styling by julia wester for oh joy } .entry-body make it , oh joy eats , sweet treats comment count 21 comments facebook like .entry-footer-info .entry-footer .entry-content .entry this displays your posts , without any post you 've marked as " featured " in the studio lately... 8 aug 2014 .entry-header it 's been a little mad in my office lately with prep for a ton of upcoming projects. if you stop by our studio on any given day , here 's a few of the things you might see...pillows taking over every square inch of floor , kids hiding in said pillows , matchy-matchy moments , vintage clothes gone wild , and dogs wearing party hats. it 's serious business over here , folks. have a great weekend all ! .entry-body business ( mixed with pleasure ) , hello , my name is joy comment count 36 comments facebook like .entry-footer-info .entry-footer .entry-content .entry « older posts .pager-inner .pager-bottom .pager-entries .pager .content-nav end show all other posts after ad # beta-inner # beta sidebar1 include sidebar module content here categories archives all-time favorite posts fun little films eats guides faq 's other inquiries receive oh joy posts via email email : my latest video joy , please note : set the video width to 337 here. the height should be whatever is the correct aspect ratio. -tri see more right here .. . oh joy ! elsewhere.. . oh joy for target / in stores now ! oh joy for nod / in stores now ! wallpaper for hygge & west daily favorites ~ a cup of jo ~ ban.do ~ b for bonnie ~ design * sponge ~ designlovefest ~ emily henderson ~ fly ~ justina blakeney ~ love taza ~ mrs. lilien ~ note to self ~ oh happy day ! ~ studio diy ~ the house that lars built ~ wit & delight ~ 100 layer cakelet recent favorite posts blog courtesy all layouts on this blog are created solely for the { oh joy ! } blog. i enjoy sharing information and love when others enjoy my finds enough to post the links on their own sites. however , i ask that you do not use my exact layouts or designs without permission or without noting its origins on your post. all photos " by oh joy " must also be credited and linked to the original post . any comments which are deemed inappropriate ~ including general spam , offensive comments or rude language , self-promotional spam , or other items unrelated to the post ~ will be deleted. oh joy ! ® is a registered trademark of nantaka joy ® , inc. all rights reserved. disclosure oh joy contains paid advertising banners and some contextual affiliate links. an affiliate link means that we receive commission on sales of the products that are linked to in my posts. so if you click on a link and make a purchase from an affiliate site , then i may make a commission from that purchase. i also work with affiliate links , on occasion , on my pinterest page . the content of my posts or pins are all items , things , and experiences i genuinely like and will only work with affiliates that fit my aesthetic and brand. any products which have been gifted or provided gratis to oh joy for review is noted with an asterisk ( * ) or c/o ( courtesy of ) at the bottom of the post and are only posted if a good fit for the oh joy aesthetic and content. any sponsored giveaways or posts will be noted as such . powered by typepad blog powered by typepad member since 09/2005 .module-content .module-powered .module # alpha-inner # alpha # pagebody-inner # pagebody # container-inner # container main index template start quantcast tag end quantcast tag
