seo ultimate ( http : //www.seodesignsolutions.com/wordpress-seo/ ) /seo ultimate davidreport_fullsite_leaderboard_header_728x90 about services contributors advertising tip us ! contact home trend report nature ’ s living wisdom make design matter closed wallets , closed minds design + culture – a return to fundamentalism ? time to rethink design a checklist for sustainability 5 key design trends i shop therefore i am the sustainable wheel vulgarism future luxury communication through product welcome to the credibility loop design ( in ) the future supreme regionalism liberate design design culture commercial life architecture art fashion music travel container content latest articles commercial life / design collection of tiles “ tratti ” by inga sempe for mutina by david carlson on aug 6 , 2014 • no comments the new collection of tiles “ tratti ” by french designer inga sempe will be launched by the italian company mutina during the cersaie fair in sassuolo from the 22th to the 26th of september . art / design marbelous wood by snedker studio by louise brandstrup zastrow on jun 13 , 2014 • 1 comment it is a culmination of years of experimentation and development that has led pernille snedker hansen to produce her current works. inspired by suminagashi , an ancient japanese craft , she has re-purposed the traditional craft of marbling. working directly to explore the fluid nature of these techniques she manages to enhance materials and create unique forms. the.. . design commercial life / culture / design time to apply for design s – the swedish design award by david carlson on may 23 , 2014 • no comments design s is the swedish nation design award. the award is presented by svensk form and singles out creative and innovative solutions in a range of different design fields. design s has been presented every second year since 2006. before that the award was called utm ä rkt svensk form ( excellent swedish design award ) . everyone wants design.. . architecture / design / sustainability graphic print and villa concept by taf by david carlson on may 7 , 2014 • no comments paper collective brings together graphic designers , agencies , artists and illustrators to create inspirational and iconic graphic prints while promoting great causes and charities. for every poster they sell , the donatation is at least 15 % . in the collaboration between design and architectural office taf and paper collective the donation will benefit the organisation asf international ( architecture sans.. . design ceramic centerpieces by benjamin hubert by david carlson on apr 29 , 2014 • 1 comment seams is a collection of five large ceramic centerpieces by british designer benjamin hubert for the iconic italian ceramic manufacture bitossi ceramiche. the collection stems from the studio ’ s research into creating mass-produced products with one off details by manipulating a traditional ceramic manufacturing process . culture art / culture / design henzel studio collaborations volume # 1 by david carlson on apr 5 , 2014 • 1 comment next week during the milan design week henzel studio will preview an edited display of henzel studio collaborations volume # 1 , an exclusive collection of art rugs realized in close collaboration with twelve artists , including some of the most prominent and influential names in the contemporary art world. for fifteen years , henzel studio has created luxury handmade.. . commercial life / culture / design h ö vding – the airbag for cyclists by david carlson on apr 4 , 2014 • 1 comment the talented people behind h ö vding – the airbag for cyclists – have just made a nice short film about why cycle helmets are far from as safe as we think they are. the film highlights the gap between traditional cycle helmets and the new , radically different alternative , that is h ö vding . culture / fashion four key trends for summer by david carlson on apr 4 , 2014 • 1 comment now that it ’ s finally spring , and temperatures are slowly , but surely rising , many of us are anticipating breaking out our spring and summer clothes. there ’ s something liberating mentally , as well as physically , about that first day of spring when you don ’ t need to wear your winter coat. spring also means , of course , a new set.. . commercial life commercial life / design wallpapers by claesson koivisto rune for engblad & co by david carlson on apr 3 , 2014 • 1 comment our editor-in-chief david carlson has for some time been working as acting group design director for wallvision. wallvision runs a number of swedish and international premium wallpaper brands. one of david ’ s tasks has been to raise the wallpaper category to be more top-of-mind when it comes to design and architecture. in conjunction with the milan design.. . commercial life / design case studies by benjamin hubert by david carlson on mar 20 , 2014 • 1 comment benjamin hubert is according to david report among the top industrial designers in the world. for a long time we have been attracted by benjamin huberts ’ use of innovation in materials to meet human needs. especially how he can work with technology without ending up in abstract technological solutions. we actually helped benjamin with some words for.. . commercial life / culture / design / sustainability david carlson to present at singapore design week by david carlson on mar 10 , 2014 • no comments david carlson , editor-in-chief of david report , will be involved in the upcoming singapore design week , taking place march 10 – 16. together with tim power and claudio colucci david will present at the furniture design forum arranged by singaplural. the forum aims to encourage a cultural exchange of ideas , inspiration and instill a spirit of entrepreneurship among designers in asia.. . /content david report elsewhere rss facebook twitter flickr linkedin advertisement davidreport_fullsite_mediumrectangle_right_sidebar_above_300x250 recent articles collection of tiles “ tratti ” by inga sempe for mutina aug 6 , 2014 marbelous wood by snedker studio jun 13 , 2014 time to apply for design s – the swedish design award may 23 , 2014 graphic print and villa concept by taf may 7 , 2014 ceramic centerpieces by benjamin hubert apr 29 , 2014 advertisement explore david report by tags swfobject embed by geoff stearns geoff @ deconcept.com http : //blog.deconcept.com/swfobject/ apple architecture art bicycle bike book books bouroullec branding cars claesson koivisto rune copenhagen culture design designboost events exhibition fashion food furniture future glass graphic design hotel innovation interior design knowledge lamp lifestyle luxury marketing media milan design week milan furniture fair mobility music photography restaurant social responsibility stockholm sustainability sustainable design tokyo travel trends wp cumulus flash tag cloud by roy tanck requires flash player 9 or better . /container about david report david report is an influential blog and online magazine that since 2006 explores the intersection of design , culture and business. our readers share our interest and curiosity in everything from art , architecture , culture , design and fashion to food , innovation , music , sustainability and travel . categories about david report architecture art commercial life culture design fashion music report announcement sustainability travel flickr newsletter start of code generated by mailpress ( 5.3 ) loading.. . end of code generated by mailpress ( 5.3 ) about services contributors advertising tip us ! contact © 2014 david report . all rights reserved. created by oblador , theme originally by wpshower . page generated : 1.843 s , 132 queries powered by wptouch : 3.4.4 dynamic page generated in 1.831 seconds . cached page generated by wp-super-cache on 2014-08-14 18 : 37 : 39 compression = gzip super cache
