notes on design end # logo business resources inspiration trending interviews food for thought # header .container best new design projects on kickstarter august 12 , 2014 since its launch in 2009 , kickstarter has taken the world by storm. here 's a roundup web design trend watch : parallax scrolling july 30 , 2014 parallax scrolling. even if you 've never heard the term , you 've likely seen it in use this week in design : sky suits , olympic cauldrons , and beer goggles for designers july 27 , 2014 what 's trending this week in design ? olympic cauldron controversy , material design , sky suits , and more . resources 0 15 july , 2014 top 8 portfolio sites for 2014 in the age of social media , more designers are turning to read more 0 2 july , 2014 the new creative cloud – everything new , or just better we ask what 's new about the much bally-hooed 2014 adobe creative read more 0 1 july , 2014 google unveils new “ material design ” language google unveils material design , a unified design language that aims to read more end .cat-posts latest posts 0 best new design projects on kickstarter .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , inspiration , trending / 12 august 2014 since its launch in 2009 , kickstarter has taken the world by storm. here 's a roundup of some great kickstarter design projects ( going on now ) to intrigue and inspire . read more .post excerpt 0 this week in design : iphone 6 leaks , web designer update , apple ban .header by : hannah shaffer / category : trending / 6 august 2014 more web design trends to watch last week , we wrote about the benefits ( and possible drawbacks ) of parallax scrolling in web design. this piece from business2community runs down a list of web design trends to watch for and why they matter. in addition to parallax scrolling , the piece covers read more .post excerpt 0 web design trend watch : parallax scrolling .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , trending / 30 july 2014 parallax scrolling. even if you 've never heard the term , you 've likely seen it in use on the web. from nintendo fans to nasa , web developers around the world are hopping on the parallax bandwagon . read more .post excerpt 0 this week in design : sky suits , olympic cauldrons , and beer goggles for designers .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , trending / 27 july 2014 what 's trending this week in design ? olympic cauldron controversy , material design , sky suits , and more . read more .post excerpt 0 5 feel-good artists to follow on behance .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , inspiration / 17 july 2014 if you 're not already hooked on behance , our list of feel-good artists should offer a look into the diverse range of styles featured across the site ! read more .post excerpt 0 top 8 portfolio sites for 2014 .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , resources / 15 july 2014 in the age of social media , more designers are turning to hosted portfolio sites to share their work. we review our top portfolio sites of 2014 . read more .post excerpt 0 who designed it ? the grunge typography of david carson .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , inspiration / 10 july 2014 today 's " who designed it ? " celebrates designer david carson , whose first book , the end of print , is considered the best-selling graphic design book of all time . read more .post excerpt 0 packaging design for summer .header by : hannah shaffer / category : featured , inspiration / 3 july 2014 how do marketers and designers handle the challenge of seasonally-appropriate packaging ? a showcase of our favorite examples . read more .post excerpt 1 2 3 4 next › last » recent posts best new design projects on kickstarter this week in design : iphone 6 leaks , web designer update , apple ban web design trend watch : parallax scrolling this week in design : sky suits , olympic cauldrons , and beer goggles for designers 5 feel-good artists to follow on behance tweets by @ notesondesign categories archives business featured food for thought inspiration interviews resources trending sidebars # page .main-container pages about nod sessions college for professional design is an online school of visual arts offering degree and certificate programs in graphic design , web design , digital media , illustration , advertising design , and more . subscribe subscribe_widget recent posts best new design projects on kickstarter this week in design : iphone 6 leaks , web designer update , apple ban web design trend watch : parallax scrolling .footer-widgets start copyrights notes on design copyright © 2014 . theme by mythemeshop . back to top ↑ end copyrights .container footer twitter button script---- facebook like button script---- start slider end slider
