please click here if you are not redirected within a few seconds . ideas trends dashboard reports custom service keynotes select category all fashion tech culture design ads business eco social good lifestyle luxury bizarre keynotes gift shop all fashion tech culture design ads business eco good life luxury bizarre keynotes gift shop ideas lists videos photos pro show all the best pro filters # 1 in trends trend hunter is the world 's largest , most popular collection of cutting edge ideas , fueled by 154,000 insatiably curious people. our trends , trend reports and innovation keynotes help creative people find better ideas , faster ™ [ more ] join 3,000,000 on the cutting edge articles : 248,258 monthly views : 60,000,000 hunters : 153,716 about us newsletter internships jobs advertise tips / contact innovation keynotes trend advisory trend reports workshops innovation book research copyright © trend hunter inc. all rights reserved. terms of use & privacy today week month # 20 illustrated actor tributes there are many ways to pay tribute to a legendary soul and artists from around the world have decided to do so through a series of robin williams art. ranging from mosaics to sketches and everything... ( gallery ) [ full article ] 10 1 d ago top 100 marketing ideas in august from ridiculous rebranding spoofs to one star motel ads share eco 9.7 1 d ago top 100 fashion ideas in august from fierce parisian editorials to grungy pop-up shops share fashion 9.8 1 d ago top 100 tech ideas in august from wireless smart headphones to wearable banking apps share life-stages 9.6 1 d ago top 100 pop culture ideas in august from disney princess superheroes to satirical selfie sketches share unique 9.7 1 d ago top 100 design ideas in august from sleek spanish abodes to towering toilet exhibits share eco 9.4 1 d ago top 100 lifestyle ideas in august from parisian picnic services to dapper pet accessories share fashion 9.9 1 d ago top 85 business ideas in august from grilled cheese deliveries to toy rental services share life-stages 9.4 1 d ago top 35 luxury ideas in august from clock tower penthouses to champagne ice cream share autos more 5.5 10 min ago wild video game trailers the video game 'wild ' gamescom trailer is set in a fantasy environment the highly anticipated video game wild gamescom trailer has the gaming world buzzing. the game is a playstation 4 exclusive that is being developed by michel ancel , who created the popular rayman... [ more ] share tech 6.3 30 min ago 8-bit charity build campaigns clinic craft aims to raise money for save the children on minecraft this year , in an effort to raise money for save the children , gamers dan maher and chris doney are teaming up to raise awareness and money. the duo ’ s project has been dubbed ‘ clinic craft&... [ more ] share tech 7.1 40 min ago pun-filled sculptures cutting records by david rinman slices a vinyl-made sausage cutting records is a pun-filled sculpture that brings new life to the old term. on one end , it is made to resemble a sausage while the other end is sliced into a handful of full vinyls. a playful... [ more ] share pop culture 8.9 50 min ago freshly scented hairsprays cedel 's spray can design conveys the fruity notes inside cedel is an australian company that sells a range of hairspray products and it recently had a new spray can design developed for it by epic to show off its line of scented hairsprays. the fun and... [ more ] share fashion 7.8 1 hr ago artistic heavyweight sports bart van polanen petel will inspire people to box with paint heavyweight bart van polanen petel is not only a boxer , he is a talented painter who will inspired people to put down the traditional paintbrush and box with paint instead. what does that mean ? it... [ more ] share lifestyle 8.9 1 hr ago carb-obsessed art greetings etsy 's pretzel croissant baguettes postcards set is charming etsy user jacqueline chan is the owner of whimsy milieu , a shop specializing in jewelry , accessories and art pieces like this “ pretzel croissant baguettes ” postcards set that celebrates... [ more ] share art & design 6.1 1 hr ago anime monster hats this pikachu pokemon hat is great for gamers anime fans can pick up this super cute pikachu pokemon hat to wear the next time you got ta catch ‘ em all. this stylish yellow baseball cap is sure to get you noticed with the smiling pikachu... [ more ] share fashion 8.6 1 hr ago 40 simulation video games from detailed city simulators to tedious lineup games these simulation video games make it possible for you to step into any kind of situation , instantly turning yourself into a race car driver , a yoga addict or a rampaging goat . one of the newest... [ more ] share tech 10 1 hr ago humongous cargo airplanes the vv-plane will be able to carry massive loads at high speed uk-based 4x4 aviation has developed an enormous hybrid cargo airplane that will be able to carry truck-sized loads of cargo at speeds of up to 320 km/h. dubbed the versatile vehicle-plane or vv-plane,... [ more ] share autos 10 3 hr ago prehistoric dinosaur bikes markus moestue created this dino bicycle design to travel around norway inventor markus moestue created this innovative and rather unique dinosaur for his travels to norway. the handmade bike design makes it look as though moestue is actually riding on the back of a... [ more ] share art & design 5.8 1 hr ago lightweight camping trailers the go-easy trailer weighs little but can carry a lot the go-easy trailer is a simplified version of sylvansport ’ s go trailer , one of the more versatile trailers around. the main selling point of the new trailer is its light weight — it... [ more ] share autos 7.5 2 hr ago 30 bounty hunter finds from sci-fi bounty hunter bikes to psychic police force these bounty hunter finds have been put together in honor of reality tv star duane chapman ’ s , also known as dog the bounty hunter , mission to capture wanted war machine , jon koppenhaver. the... [ more ] share autos 9.5 2 hr ago bespoke designer footwear stuart weitzman 's swxyou series can now be made into custom heels although there ’ s something prestigious about being able to pick up a designer item and call it your own , stuart weitzman is now giving admirers of his work the chance to create their own... [ more ] share fashion 8.1 2 hr ago sharp-toothed ring accessories this wooden shark ring from etsy celebrates shark week style this wooden shark ring is created by designer jacqueline chan who is the owner of etsy ’ s whimsymilieu shop. the piece celebrates shark week in all it ’ s glory and can be yours for under $ ... [ more ] share fashion 7.2 2 hr ago bohemian seaside editorials model kinga rajzakposes by the beach for elle czech for the august 2014 issue of elle czech , photographer branislav simoncik charming model kinga rajzak by the seaside in a refreshing summer editorial. the images feature rajzak frolicking along the... [ more ] share fashion 8.1 3 hr ago illustrated actor tributes a growing collection of robin williams art honors the late actor there are many ways to pay tribute to a legendary soul and artists from around the world have decided to do so through a series of robin williams art. ranging from mosaics to sketches and everything... [ more ] share pop culture 5 3 hr ago virtual car displays the third-generation audi tt cockpit will be a virtual cockpit the new audi tt cockpit is a virtual cockpit that takes the recent popularity of sleek in-car infotainment displays to the next level. this virtual cockpit consists of a 12.3-inch screen located... [ more ] share autos 7.5 3 hr ago perfume-scented cookies the est é e cookie is a fragrant cookie flavor by est é e lauder and momofuku high-end makeup brand est é e lauder recently teamed up with popular new york eatery momofuku milk bar to create an innovative cookie flavor that smells like perfume but is still 0 edible. the result... [ more ] share lifestyle 4.1 0 min ago superhero tree cosplay this realistic groot costume cost less than $ 100 to make everyone is bound to have their favorite ‘ guardians of the galaxy ’ character and those who count the lovable tree superhero as theirs will appreciate this groot costume. incredibly... [ more ] share art & design 4.8 20 min ago parody personality drinks this comical juice cleanse art installation satirizes pop culture artist josh kline parodies the juice cleanse craze and pop culture with his latest art installation titled skittles. the series features a fridge with various fake juice bottles filled with random... [ more ] share pop culture 5.3 2 hr ago exposed educational shows shark week debunked by vox reveals a series of dramatized truths vox , a general interest news site , has created a video that is sure to attract a lot of eyeballs : shark week debunked. launched back in 1988 , this week of shark information has never been more... [ more ] share social good 6.4 2 hr ago mysterious puzzle games rime for playstation 4 takes place on a strange island full of secrets rime is a playstation 4 game that just had a new trailer released at gamescom 2014. the game stars a boy who wakes up on the shore of an unknown island and the action centers around unraveling the... [ more ] share tech 4.4 3 hr ago hiv-fighting tampons these dissolving tampons could give women a new means of warding off hiv researchers at the university of washington have developed tampons created from a special material that could represent a novel means of protection against hiv. the tampons are made out of a... [ more ] share lifestyle 4.4 3 hr ago physics-defying ride games microsoft 's screamride game takes roller coaster tycoon to a new level a fun announcement from microsoft at this year ’ s gamescom came in the form of a new game called screamride. the game will be launched exclusively for xbox and it ’ ll definitely be a game... [ more ] share tech score : 5.2 this year and warm top 4 examples : 2,309 total clicks demographics popularity activity freshness pro trend communal gaming as the popularity of gaming expands , players turn to more communal methods of play pro trend implications - as gamer culture continues to expand with the advancements of technology and online interaction , players are becoming more open and expressive of their gaming habits as a means to connect with a societal emphasis on play. adding more physical interaction to traditionally private methods of online gaming , high-tech gaming tvs and entertainment systems allows consumers to immerse themselves in fantasy while simultaneously opening up the door for more connected play. [ more ] media machine consoles cloud-streamed videogame systems video game tv stations holistic gamer-friendly spaces filed in pro : pop culture tech games hottest lists of all-time 6.8 143 w ago 98 fluorescent neon innovations from electrifying '80s jewelry to color-popping fingertips fluorescent neon have been a hit since the 1980s and have recently made a bold revival in the fashion , design and art world. fierce fluorescents have been making waves and slowly returning to their status … [ more ] share fashion 7.5 86 w ago 12 daring latex looks these tight and shiny fashion finds definitely make a statement yes , latex fashion is not for everyone , but that does not necessarily mean this ultra-daring look is what you think it is. though normally associated with a more — ahem — night time-... [ more ] share fashion 8 75 w ago 100 multi-purpose kitchen tools from all-in-one cooking utensils to multifunctional bbq tools the best way to save time and money when it comes to cooking supplies is to go for some of the many multi-purpose kitchen tools on the market . hybrid tools are helpful for saving storage and... [ more ] share unique lol 7.8 84 w ago 55 bizarre alcohol ads from ads with naughty symbolism to apocalyptic booze finds there is something about alcohol advertising that can inspire all kinds of emotions , and these bizarre alcohol ads stir up multiple feelings. from fear to laughing your socks off , these ads are each... [ more ] share social good 7.2 147 w ago 40 flex-tech designs from ductile device peripherals to roll-up keyboards one way that technology can adapt to your needs is by being flexible -- literally. these flex-tech designs illustrate how technology has enhanced over the years to give tech consumers maximum adaptability. … [ more ] share unique 6.1 253 w ago 71 nifty nike sneakers clever kicks , from funky fresh footwear to city-repping sneakers with the help of michael jordan , nike has become the go-to brand in athletic footwear. whether you are posterizing some poor 6th grader on an 8-foot goal or shredding some pow pow with their snowboarding … [ more ] share fashion show more
