begin header morfae the shape of things architecture . design . interior . visual arts . style . submit search for : facebook . twitter . google + . pinterest . rss end header begin google analytics end google analytics begin menu xmenu + menu begin menu architecture conservation health culture education highrise hospitality industry infrastructure institutional leisure mixed use office buildings landscapes outdoor public spaces religious architecture homes apartment blocks retail sustainability urban planning design home furniture lighting outdoor furniture graphic arts product design home accessories design for children technology interior culture exhibition education hospitality installation childern leisure office interiors home interiors retail visual arts painting street art murals sculpture installation art style fashion editorial women 's fashion men 's fashion jewellery fashion accessories end menu end menu begin ad conversant media 468x60 and 728x90 banner code for morfae conversant media 468x60 and 728x90 banner code for morfae end ad extension of the helicopter group of civil security – nimes garons by nbj architectes in montpellier , france the restructuration and expansion of the helicopter base for civil security in nimes garons is a relatively complex project , under two major constraints. firstly the fact that the work should be done without interrupting the activity of helicopter maintenance requiring extreme rigor in the areas of site partitioning and scheduling of work , then look at [ ... ] sprecher house by saota in hangklip , south africa a linear homestead with large verandas and monopitched roofs is a contemporary low-maintenance weekend retreat for a well-travelled family . edison residence by kanva in montreal , canada photoengraved concrete panels enabled the building to tell a story extracted from the sequence of stills from the film : montreal fire department on runners . quantomais , a pop-up field in the centre of the city by a4a rivolta savioni architetti in milan , italy over 1,500 man-sized sheaves of corn for the field that shot up overnight at the end of july , in the heart of milan , opposite the sforza castle , between the two expo gate pavilions . world architecture festival awards 2014 world architecture festival awards 2014 shortlist announced solarleaf by arup in collaboration with ssc and colt international shortlisted for zumtobel group award 2014 solarleaf , the world ’ s first bioreactive fa ç ade presented at the biq house , has been shortlisted for the zumtobel group award 2014 in the “ applied innovations ” category . lasso light by quentin de coster for cinna – ligne roset usually unattractive , the electrical cable is here used to direct the lighting by a sliding motion turning it into a nice graphic element . office off by heri&salli in burgenland , austria meeting points , attached to living and relax areas , a gym , a swimming pool , common areas outside and a climbing wall at the entrance reinvent the workspace . cj5 housing project by caramel in vienna , austria from the outside , one enters a relatively enclosed white spatial sculpture , which then continues to open up vertically as one proceeds from the studio / garage in the entrance area to the living area and atrium garden. in this way , an internal set of very spacious interlocking rooms is developed , despite the narrowness of the property . foo residence by apollo architects & associates in yokohama city , kanagawa , japan the characteristic fa ç ade is designed with exposed concrete and wooden lattices of serangan batu wood , taking the horizon into consideration . frame house and studio by apollo architects & associates in tokyo , japan wood is used for the walls and the back of the eaves as decoration , resulting in creating a perfect contrast of wood and concrete . the world interiors news annual awards 2014 shortlist announced for the world interiors news annual awards 2014 festival des architectures vives 2014 in montpellier , france leaving no physical trace , the festival seeks to make an impression , to initiate a global reflection on architecture and its development in existing urban context and finally , to create a dialogue between contemporary works and heritage . sensual wave by marion moustey and alexandre arcens , architectes , la grande motte , france ephemeral installation onde sensuelle for the festival of lively architecture , ( festival des architectures vives ) at la grande motte france ‘ one more ’ kaohsiung residential tower by spatial practice in taiwan spatial practice 100meter residential tower groundbreaking , ‘ one more ’ in kaohsiung , taiwan ‘ illume ’ bicycle by nikhil kapoor ( + video ) to overcome the problems of riding at night , the design merges the indicator , brake and headlights into the frame in a way that it affords a safer ride . ‘ rite of passage : the early years of vienna actionism , 1960 – 1966 ′ exhibition at hauser & wirth , new york hauser & wirth to present new york ’ s first major exhibition devoted to the early years of vienna actionism . luxembourg & dayan presents ‘ that obscure object of desire ’ exploring connections between art and fetish , luxembourg & dayan presents ‘ that obscure object of desire ’ clavius x by manuel vivian for axo light a new clavius to celebrate its first 10 years ( 2004-2014 ) edith and seashell hood-lamps by elica hoods that light or lamps that extract ? begin ad end ad begin page navigation [ more ] end page navigation end index block broken image script end broken image script follow @ morfae morfae : the shape of things | copyright mmxiii morfae. all rights reserved. copyright | contact | privacy | terms | about 34 queries. 0.639 seconds . lightbox plus colorbox v2.6/1.3.32 - 2013.01.24 - message : 1
