art design culture fashion film interviews inspiration submit your art sculpture the environmental sculptures of aganetha dyck concept art the modern illustrations of mattias snygg traditional art the surreal art of eric heyninck latest news design events how 2014 logo design competition & awards always be hustling. how has launched it ’ s annual logo design competition and we want to make sure that you have the opportunity to compete for glory and awards. .. . on july 28 , 2014 / by creative fluff the atmospheric photography of kevin j. short art in unexpected places – a layover story of philadelphia airport more posts the japanese pinup art of oneq on june 18 , 2014 the interesting ink art of ben tolman on june 4 , 2014 the bizarre illustrations of artist khoa le on may 29 , 2014 the creative concept art of andrew vasilchenko on may 28 , 2014 the perfect paper art of su blackwell on may 27 , 2014 new illustrations illustration the japanese pinup art of oneq illustration the interesting ink art of ben tolman illustration the bizarre illustrations of artist khoa le illustration gabriel picolo ’ s 365 days of doodles illustration the warm illustrations of chuck groenink end container end wrapper our services staff art , photography , film , & design submission guidelines about creativefluff is an online design and art magazine run by a group of critical young designers , artists & writers founded in 2008. we focus squarely on art & design from up-and-coming artists who transcend genre and trends. we assure our readers that our thorough coverage and content is relevant , informative and always original . creativefluff is a well curated showcase of the very best in modern artists. we spotlight new contemporary & emerging artists as well as controversial topics in art which could very well define the future of art in our culture . we are constantly searching for new artists with a commitment to promote , inspire and disseminate best works . inspirational resources inkblog stock photos the game critique like us on facebook © 2014 creative fluff all rights reserved .
