< ! [ endif ] printed issue • content gallery • past issues beautiful content and graphics as always only this time you can stroke it with your hands and not smudge the monitor with finger juice . bitique blanket magazine the first printed edition since first released on the internet in december 2006 , blanket magazine has uncovered hundreds of artists , designers and photographers from around the world. after 25 online issues , i am proud to release the very first printed issue . the blanket print edition is a compendium of ideas , knowledge and experience pertaining to the creative process of art , design and photography. the content has been carefully considered and curated to include everything you love about blanket : features , projects , profiles and , of course , beautiful art , design and photography ! designed to be a limited edition keepsake every detail has been meticulously considered to accentuate the tangible quality of this printed edition. with a pantone metallic cover , hand-stamped emboss detail , bespoke typefaces , commissioned artworks and decorative flourishes , the printed blanket compendium is designed to be kept , treasured and referenced for years to come . i hope you like it . bec brown uncover what 's inside the first print edition of blanket magazine ! we like to think we know a little bit about taking an online platform into the printed world , but by any standards the first ever printed edition of blanket magazine is pretty breathtaking . it 's nice that blanket magazine has now sold out ! thank you to everyone who supported blanket 's very first print edition. we look forward to bringing you more issues in future ! magazine specifications perfect-bound a5 -148mm ( w ) x 210mm ( h ) 68 pages - ad free ! cover - metallic pantone inside - 4-colour litho printed printed on fsc certified revive 50-50 paper stock hand numbered and hand embossed . limited edition of 500 contact blanket magazine : sign up for the blanket mailing list and keep up to date with the latest news . tweet © blanket magazine 2011 — uncovering art , design & photography since 2006 eo # container scripts concatenated and minified via ant build script end scripts place this tag after the last plusone tag
