journal of symbolic computation : editor-in-chief 's web page published by elsevier editor-in-chief : prof. hoon hong ( hong @ ncsu.edu ) previous editor-in-chiefs : prof. bruno buchberger ( 1985-1995 , founding editor ) , prof. bob caviness ( 1996-2000 ) editorial board an international journal , the journal of symbolic computation is directed to mathematicians , computer scientists , other scientists , engineers and educators who have a particular interest in symbolic computation. its vision is to provide a forum for integrated research in the algorithmic treatment of all types of symbolic objects. it is the explicit goal of the journal to promote the integration of symbolic computation by establishing one common avenue of communication for researchers working in the different subareas . research areas include computational algebra computational geometry ( non-linear ) automated theorem proving automatic programming design and implementation of symbolic computation languages and systems non-trivial applications in education , science , engineering and industry database coverage includes math reviews , acm guide to computing literature ; compumath citation index ; computer and control abstracts ; computing review ; current contents/engineering , technology , and applied sciences ; electrical & electronics abstracts ; physics abstracts ; and research alert. jsc online abstracts brief tables of content bibtex entries extensive cross-referenced index submittal of manuscripts it is strongly recommended that the paper is prepared in latex using the " elsevier article class ( elsart.cls ) " with " jsc add-on style ( yjsco.sty ) " and " harvard style references ( elsart-harv.bst ) " . this will significantly speed up the publication process of the paper. the package " jsc latex " ( that contains all the necessary style files and a template ) can be obtained from here . send an email to the editor-in-chief ( prof. hoon hong ) with the following content : the title of the paper. for each author , the name and the postal address. the abstract ( must be a plain text ) . the names of three editorial board members whom you suggest to " organize " the refeering of the paper. make sure that the persons are experts on the subject of the paper and that there is no conflict of interests between you and the suggested editorial board members. usually , one out of the three will be chosen to organize the review of the paper ) . attach the paper ( must be in either " pdf " or " postscript " format ) for referees jsc referee form
