1999 imacs conference on applications of computer algebra international association for mathematics and computers in simulation conference on applications of computer algebra june 24-27 , 1999 ( scientific program june 25-27 ) euroforum , el escorial ( near madrid ) , spain imacs-aca99 @ ccedu.ucm.es sponsors/collaborators : addlink software cientifico cotopaxi imacs real sociedad matematica espa ñ ola ( rsme ) sociedad matematica puig adam texas instruments universidad complutense de madrid universidad complutense de madrid - servicios informaticos organizers : honorary president : rafael puyol ( rector of the universidad complutense de madrid ) general chair : eugenio roanes-lozano ( univ. complutense de madrid , spain ) program chairs : victor edneral ( moscow state univ. , russia ) , laureano gonzalez-vega ( univ. de cantabria , spain ) , jaime gutierrez ( univ. de cantabria , spain ) richard liska ( czech technical university , czech republic ) organizing committee : stanly steinberg ( univ. new mexico , usa ) , michael wester ( cotopaxi , usa ) , eugenio roanes-macias ( univ. complutense de madrid , spain ) , luis laita ( univ. politecnica de madrid , spain ) local committee : francisco javier blanco-silva ( univ. complutense de madrid , spain ) , martin garbayo ( univ. complutense de madrid , spain ) , mercedes hidalgo ( univ. complutense de madrid , spain ) , dolores rodriguez-soalleiro ( cpr leganes ) contents : conference program ( final ) ( postscript version for printer ) sessions final attendee list how to reach el escorial from madrid about this event touristic information full list of organizers further information about imacs is available as well as information on joining imacs and the aca technical group . for more information on symbolic computing or computer algebra , consult the computer algebra nederlands www server and the symbolicnet directory at kent state . another related conference session is the one on mathematical software at the 3rd european congress on mathematics to be held in barcelona , spain in the year 2000 . return to the imacs conferences on applications of computer algebra homepage . michael wester ( email )
