association for computing machinery special interest group on symbolic and algebraic manipulation news about join sigsam calendar conferences books & journals awards & prizes cca new graduates opportunities software mail & feeds sigsam home welcome to the sigsam website. sigsam is the largest international organization supporting and promoting research in computer algebra and symbolic computation and its applications. through various channels , including newfeeds and mailing lists , the quarterly communications in computer algebra , and our calendar of important computer algebra events we strive to provide everything you want to know about what is happening in this exciting field . have a look around and let us know what you think ! news east coast computer algebra day 2014 friday , april 18 , 2014 this year marks the 20th anniversary of the first eccad conference at drexel university. the east coast computer algebra day ( eccad ) is an annual one-day meeting for those interested in computer algebra and symbolic mathematical computation. it provides opportunities to learn and to share new results and current work in progress. this year we focus on emerging methodologies and applications. the panel discussion this year will consist of two parts , on potential research trajectories and thesis topics. furthermore , a best poster award will be given at the end of the conference meeting. following the eccad tradition , there will be ample opportunity for interaction among the participants. researchers , teachers , students , and users of computer algebra are all welcome ! ( link ) mark giesbrecht named acm distinguished scientist sunday , november 24 , 2013 mark giesbrecht , former chair of acm sigsam , was named an acm distinguished scientist . ( link ) snc 2014 first announcement and call for papers friday , october 25 , 2013 first announcement and call for papers for snc 2014 : international conference on symbolic numeric computation , july 28-31 , 2014 , shanghai , china . ( link ) issac 2014 call for papers thursday , october 3 , 2013 call for papers for issac 2014 in kobe , japan . ( link ) issac 2013 final call for posters saturday , april 13 , 2013 the poster sessions at issac offer a forum for researchers to present recent research results or ongoing projects that might not yet be complete , but whose preliminary results are already interesting nonetheless. posters reporting on recent work published or accepted or submitted elsewhere are also welcome ( with original publication clearly referenced ) . ( link ) east coast computer algebra day 2013 tuesday , april 2 , 2013 the east coast computer algebra day ( eccad ) is a one-day meeting for those interested in computer algebra and symbolic mathematical computation. it provides opportunities to learn and to share new results and current work in progress. the schedule includes prominent invited speakers along with contributed posters and software demonstrations. plenty of time is allowed for unstructured interaction among the participants. researchers , teachers , students , and users of computer algebra are all welcome ! ( link ) last updated 11 july 2010
