the history of the vapor cigarette facts , reviews , and coupons how to choose the best vape pen august 1st , 2014 by admin vaping pens coined a considerable amount of popularity in a very short span of time. the vaporizing device called electronic cigarette was introduced just a decade back and then newer plus better versions of the same device kept making their way to the stores in recent years. as and when people got to know about the benefits of this new phenomenon , they switched to electronic smoking from regular one. the best part about vape pens is that their usage is not only confined to tobacco but they can be used with all sorts of herbs and aromatic oils for different purposes . da vinci is on an entirely different level. check out the da vinci vaporizer review and you ’ ll see why people are flocking to it . recently , the medical marijuana version of this device was also introduced which truly had healing powers. but one of the problems with such high demand is that all sorts of vendors try to enter that particular industry ; bombarding the stores with their version of the product. this makes it difficult for the consumer to pick the best device for himself , usually ending up wasting some dollars . this problem , however , can be overcome by picking a vapor pen from a list of top brands. according to reviews on the internet , some brands have left their mark on this industry. one such brand is smell the truth ; a vaping pen that is not just easy to use but gives one of the best pulls as compared to other brand ’ s devices. this vape pen gives the best results for marijuana but can also be used with other herbs like lavender , clove , peppermint , etc. it is very important to know whether the device will work perfectly for a particular herb as some herbs are extremely sensitive and require a certain heat rate or temperature . as smell the truth has been named the top vaporizer for 2013 , paying a few extra dollars than other devices for it would not be a bad deal. a number of other brands that have topped the best selling vape pens list for 2013 include micro vape essential oil vaporizer , snoop dogg microg , atmos rx vaporizer pen and cloud v platinum black. the only one i could find a review on was the atmos vape pen review and it gets mixed reaction so far . posted in uncategorized | no comments » vapor pens – bad for kids ? july 30th , 2014 by admin vapor pens and kids. today we talk about how vapor cigarettes , and more astutely – vape pens , are received and marketed towards the youth . the topic of kids using vapor pens is often neglected and some people think that by not talking about it , it will simply go away. i think it is time that we discuss about this topic on what we understand about these vapor pens and their role in the adolescent population . before anything , familiarize yourself with some options for vape pens and vaporizers . for people who do not know what vapor pens are , vapor pens or electronic cigarettes are electronic devices by which a person can inhale nicotine. the device uses a coil which is operated by a battery to heat up the flavored e-liquid. the e-liquid is turned into water vapor which looks like smoke. they look like real cigarettes but looks can be deceiving . in 2012 a report suggested that 2 out of10 high school admitted to have used an electronic cigarette , they also said that they are easily available and since there are no side effects they can vape all they want. the adult population is mainly using e-cigs for nicotine cessation but a large number of adults also use them as something fashionable. a major setback in this industry is the fact that there are few medical literatures available about the benefits and health risks of electronic cigarettes. most of the medical literature available is inconclusive so no one is sure. since no data is available many e-cig manufacturers are claiming that it has no side effects at all . the adolescent population is getting familiar with electronic cigarettes and the numbers are rising each day. the question is “ why ? ” why are children being attracted to a nicotine cessation product ? one thing is obvious that a lot of money is involved in the e-cig and tobacco industry , about 8 % of the general smoking population consists of teenagers. so promoting a smoke free device would be productive because e-cigs are better than cigarettes. the new flavors like bubble gum and cake flavors attract minors as they see it a fun and tasty activity and undoubtedly it is not a healthy activity. i believe that it is time for regulation. a regulatory authority which makes sure that the sale of electronic cigs should be prohibited to children . visit afws to learn more about electronic cigarettes . it ’ s a resource that will not only talk about vape pens , but electronic cigarette brands as well. some stories from their site were used in creating this article . posted in uncategorized | no comments » /content /content_wrapper
