< ! [ endif ] mathematical sciences research institute create msri account login to msri account forgot password ? home scientific programs programs home current programs upcoming programs past programs workshops workshops home all workshops current upcoming past programmatic workshops current upcoming past hot topics workshops current upcoming past summer graduate schools current upcoming past msri up - reu other workshops current upcoming past colloquia & seminars colloquia & seminars home all colloquia & seminars current upcoming past msri evans/ lectures series postdoc seminars graduate seminars other colloquia & seminars request for proposals propose a program propose a summer graduate school propose a hot topics workshop member application research professors research member postdoctoral fellow resources for members order lunch online member handbook postdoc mentor guidelines computing handbook visa information short term housing checking out information for families restaurants & shopping recreation member directory library calendar for scientists current past upcoming education for postdocs for graduate students summer graduate school current upcoming past for undergraduates msri-up for k-12 educators critical issues math circles bamo julia robinson math festival professional development library educational items for sale books videos current past upcoming public current past upcoming videos special productions & events critical issues in mathematics education msri biology colloquia other sv sites making a dvd semester videos calendar all events scientific events k-12 education general public administrative visitors directions public transportation shuttle bus schedule parking travel information & policies governance meetings : travel policies & procedures researchers : travel policies & procedures airline travel reimbursement restrictions computing handbook visa information housing information short term housing long term housing resources for members order lunch online member handbook postdoc mentor guidelines computing handbook visa information short term housing checking out information for families restaurants & shopping recreation member directory information for families restaurants & shopping recreation about our mission our history diversity governance committees audit committee board of trustees committee of academic sponsors committee on trustees committee on women in mathematics development committee directorate education committee educational advisory committee finance committee human resource advisory committee investment committee scientific advisory committee steering committee news msri in the media emissary newsletter press releases outlook e-newsletters subscribe to newsletters announcements member directory staff directory development facilities photo gallery jobs employment member application directions contact us privacy policy support msri make a donation individual donations archimedes society gauss society make an individual donation ways to give gifts of cash gifts of securities gifts of real estate planned gifts bequests corporate sponsors current corporate sponsors becoming a corporate sponsor academic sponsors current academic sponsors becoming an academic sponsor publisher sponsor current publisher sponsor become a publisher sponsor foundation support federal support home » computational commutative algebra workshop computational commutative algebra march 13 , 2003 - march 15 , 2003 registration deadline : march 15 , 2003 over 11 years ago to apply for funding you must register by : december 13 , 2002 over 11 years ago parent program : commutative algebra organizers serkan hosten , craig huneke , bernd sturmfels ( chair ) , and irena swanson speaker ( s ) show list of speakers paolo aluffi ( florida state university ) matthias aschenbrenner ( university of california , los angeles ) jon carlson ( university of georgia ) gert-martin greuel juergen herzog gabriela jeronimo gregor kemper loa nowina-sapinski vic reiner ( university of minnesota twin cities ) lorenzo robbiano henry schenck josef schicho mike stillman ( cornell university ) rekha thomas ( university of washington ) jesus de loera ( university of california , davis ) duco van straten description this workshop is about computational commutative algebra understood in a broad sense , including both theory and its practice in fields related to commutative algebra , such as combinatorics , algebraic geometry , group theory and their applications. it will include talks by gert-martin greuel , lorenzo robbiano , and michael stillman , followed by a panel discussion on software for commutative algebra. the rest of the workshop will be in standard format , with invited lectures and time for discussions and computer explorations. invited speakers include : paulo aluffi matthias aschenbrenner jon carlson juergen herzog gabriela jeronimo gregor kemper vic reiner hal schenck josef schicho rekha thomas funding & logistics show all collapse show funding to apply for funding , you must register by the funding application deadline displayed above. students , recent ph.d. 's , women , and members of underrepresented minorities are particularly encouraged to apply. funding awards are typically made 6 weeks before the workshop begins. requests received after the funding deadline are considered only if additional funds become available . show lodging msri has preferred rates at the rose garden inn , depending on room availability. reservations may be made by calling 1-800-992-9005 or directly on their website . click on corporate at the bottom of the screen and when prompted enter code math ( this code is not case sensitive ) . by using this code a new calendar will appear and will show the msri rate on all room types available. msri has preferred rates at the hotel durant . reservations may be made by calling 1-800-238-7268. when making reservations , guests must request the msri preferred rate. if you are making your reservations on line , please go to this link and enter the promo/corporate code msri123 . our preferred rate is $ 129 per night for a deluxe queen/king , based on availability. msri has preferred rates of $ 149 - $ 189 plus tax at the hotel shattuck plaza , depending on room availability. guests can either call the hotel 's main line at 510-845-7300 and ask for the msri- mathematical science research inst . discount ; or go to www.hotelshattuckplaza.com and click book now. once on the reservation page , click “ promo/corporate code “ and input the code : msri . msri has preferred rates of $ 110 - $ 140 at the berkeley lab guest house , depending on room availability. reservations may be made by calling 510-495-8000 or directly on their website . select “ i am an individual traveler affiliated with msri ” . additional lodging options may be found on our short term housing page . show directions to venue map & directions to msri show visa/immigration visa information schedule agenda view calendar view no data exists quick links workshop home schedule todo change to proper discussion permission todo : implemenet wiki registration registration deadline has passed . for more information contact : 200 @ msri.org navigational links top scientific description funding & logistics funding lodging directions to venue visa/immigration schedule # main # main-container msri receives major funding from the national science foundation division of mathematical sciences and other supporters . copyright © 2005-2013 all rights reserved. mathematical sciences research institute . privacy policy contact us
