mirrors : steklov institute of mathematics at st.petersburg , russia and unm , albuquerque , usa aca'2000 6th imacs conference on applications of computer algebra international association for mathematics and computers in simulation conference on applications of computer algebra st. petersburg , russia , june , 25-28 , 2000 steklov institute of mathematics at st.petersburg euler international mathematical institute st.petersburg mathematical society st.petersburg state university st. petersburg center for international cooperation sponsored by general chair : nikolay vassiliev program chairs : victor edneral , richard liska , michael wester organizing committee : stanly steinberg , michael wester , yuri matiyasevich , anatoly vershik local arrangements : elena novikova , nikolay mnev , vyacheslav nesterov , sergei slavyanov scientific committee : bruno buchberger risc-linz , jacques calmet univ. of karlsruhe , arieh cohen eindhoven univ.tech , rob corless univ. of western ontario , andre deprit ntl. bureau of standarts , sam dooley ibm yorktown heights , keith geddes univ. of waterloo , vladimir gerdt institute of nuclear res. , gaston gonnet zurich , richard jenks ibm yorktown heights , erich kaltofen n. carolina state univ. , deepak kapur univ. of new mexico , ilias kotsireas orcca-univ. of western ontario , wolfgang kuechlin univ. of tuebingen , bernard kutzler bk techware , luis laita univ. politecnica madrid , richard liska tech. univ. prague , yuri matiyasevich steklov inst. of math. st. petersburg , alexander michalev moscow state univ. , michael monagan simon fraser univ. , matu-tarow noda ehime univ. , mohamed o. rayes texas instruments dallas , tomas recio univ. de cantabria , eugenio roanes-lozano univ. complutense de madrid , tateaki sasaki univ. of tsukuba , stanly steinberg univ. new mexico , david stoutemeyer soft. warehouse , nikolay vassiliev steklov inst. of math. st. petersburg , anatoli vershik steklov inst. of math. st. petersburg , emil volcheck national security agency , volker weispfenning passau , franz winkler j.kepler univ. linz contents : third announcement current list of participants schedule of sessions schedule of events sessions preliminary program accommodation conference location ladys ' program information in russian st. petersburg information if you want to organise a special session please contact to the program chairs . if you are interested in further information please register in mailing list . please take into account that usually every foreign visitor to russia should get a visa at the russain consulate in his own place. we shall send a special invitation to apply for a visa , but you should fill in our registration form in time ( the procedure could takes about a month ) . further information about imacs is available as well as information on joining imacs and the aca technical group and imacs web page . closest conferences on related topics : 3rd european congress on mathematics mega 2000 : the sixth international symposium on effective methods in algebraic geometry fpsac 2000 : 12-th international conference on formal power series and algebraic combinatorics issac 2000 : international symposium on symbolic and algebraic computation 16th imacs world congress 2000 on scientific computation , applied mathematics ans simulation third international workshop on computer algebra in scientific computing for more information on symbolic computing or computer algebra , consult the computer algebra netherlands www server and the symbolicnet directory at kent state . imacs aca conferences . for more information ask at aca2000 @ imi.ras.ru . back to the eimi home page back to the steklov institute of mathematics at st.petersburg
