logicsmith forehelp.hotspot jump = " home " forehelp.endhotspot home - forehelp.hotspot jump = " background " forehelp.endhotspot contact info - forehelp.hotspot jump = " articles " forehelp.endhotspot articles - forehelp.hotspot jump = " files " forehelp.endhotspot files - forehelp.hotspot jump = " portal " forehelp.endhotspot links - forehelp.hotspot jump = " adventures " forehelp.endhotspot adventures - forehelp.hotspot jump = " other " forehelp.endhotspot other stuff - forehelp.hotspot jump = " dual_monitor_wallpaper " forehelp.endhotspot dual monitor wallpaper history of hard drives the hard disk drive was invented by some ibm engineers working under rey johnson at ibm in san jose , ca , in about 1952 to 1954. i worked at ibm from 1965 to 1981 and got to meet and work with some of those men - rey johnson , john lynott , don cronquist , bob schneider and lou stevens come to mind right now . in 1965 ( i think that was the year ) a number of engineers left ibm ( they were known as the " dirty dozen " within ibm ) and founded memorex. al shugart , one of them , later left memorex and founded first shugart associates where the 5 1/4 " floppy disk drive was a major product , then seagate technology , which effectively started today 's industry of small hard disk drives . the early drives almost all had linear actuators , that is , they moved the heads across the disks in a straight line , using a carriage with wheels. it was only later that rotary actuators , where the heads are held at the tips of a comb-like array and they swing back and forth like a gate , became popular. because the rotary actuator is cheaper , it 's now the standard for all hard disk drives , and that 's what i 'll be talking about . the first ibm ramac disk drive had a couple of dozen disks , each about 2 feet in diameter , and one head ! the head was moved from disk to disk and back and forth on each disk using a system of cables and pulleys and stepping motors. the added speed of having at least one head for each disk surface , and of using both surfaces of each disk , soon became obvious , and drives began to look pretty " modern " by 1960 , although they were vastly larger and more expensive. whether the heads are moved in a straight line or swung in an arc , something has to provide the force and the control to move them and keep them in the right place . stepping motors , hydraulic actuators and voice coil motors have been used to provide the motive force. stepping motors have a built-in capability to hold in one position. hydraulic actuators and voice coil motors ( vcms ) provide force , but ca n't hold a position with great accuracy. a rack with detent pawls has been used , but nowadays a servo system is used , with the positioning information recorded on the disks . so you can have a disk drive with a stepping motor and you do n't need a " servo " or you can have a disk drive with " servo data " recorded on the disks. a stepping motor is simpler ( at least in concept ) and cheaper , but it 's slower in seek time because it is n't really very powerful , and it is n't capable of really , really fine precision. a vcm can provide enormous forces , but it needs control , which the servo system provides. however servo feedback systems are complicated and you have to pre-record the positioning data somehow ( usually on one or more of the disks ) , and that takes up space that could be used for " real " data. on the other hand , servo systems can provide incredibly precise positioning . the style of hard disk drive we use today began to emerge in the early 1980s. i think it was maxtor , under frank gibeau , where the first high-volume 5 1/4 " disk drives with a rotary actuator , a vcm and a servo system were produced . in 1986 , finis conner left seagate and founded conner peripherals along with john squires , and they built the first high-volume 3 1/2 " disk drives. the first one , 40 mb , was called the " fat 40 " . not only did they popularize the new smaller " form factor " , but they were the first to have an " embedded servo " or " sector servo " in volume . meanwhile , quantum corporation had been building 8 " and 5 1/4 " disk drives since 1980 , and in the mid 1980 's they ( actually i think it was joel harrison and bill moon ) saw an opportunity with the 3 1/2 " form factor and invented the " hard card " , a disk drive on an expansion card that you could just plug into your at. and that 's how the ide interface got started . by the way , quantum used a rather odd variant of the servo system for many years , where the servo information was actually very fine lines etched on a piece of glass attached to the actuator , and read with a photocell. it 's actually more complicated , but that 's a subject for another discussion . around 1990 , laptops began to appear , and with them came the 2 1/2 " form factor. i never worked closely with 2 1/2 " drives , and i 'm not very well versed in their historical development . way back in the old days , when the world was young and all , < g > , a single disk surface was reserved for " servo data " on disk drives that had a voice-coil actuator. drives with stepper motors did n't need that stuff , and could justly claim that they did n't have to " waste " disk surface on " servo data " . servo data , by the way , is information that 's pre-recorded on the disk and specially formatted to make it possible for the drive to know where its heads are positioned. a stepper motor has , if no errors have occurred , the equivalent information built into its mechanical structure . but during the late 1970s and early 1980s , techniques were developed that allowed the servo data to be written on the same surfaces that hold the regular user data. there were several schemes proposed and actually implemented , but the one that has taken hold is called " sector servo " , where some number of regions on each data track are specially reserved for servo information. because the sectors are physically coherent on each disk surface , they 're commonly called " servo spokes " . i 've seen drives with as few as 64 spokes per revolution and as many as 128 . i believe the first major manufacturer to use sector servo was conner--sector servo and the 3 1/2 " form factor were their keys to success when they started in ( i think ) 1986. [ at the time , i was one of the majority of old disk drive people who thought they were headed for disaster. later , i worked there. shows how smart i am ! ] while there may still be drives manufactured with a dedicated servo surface , i think the last major manufacturer to use one was seagate , up until a couple of years ago. the first barracuda drive had a dedicated servo surface. later barracudas , and i think all current seagates , use sector servo technology . disk drive production has become easier nowadays - there are even forehelp.hotspot jump = " " forehelp.endhotspot cheap hard drive deals which indicate cost-efficient manufacturing of these devices . copyright š 1999 by albert dayes and john treder
