a brief history of computing © copyright 1996-2005 , stephen white i have compiled this history purely out of my personal interest in the subject , and i apologise for any omissions or mistakes in the documents. if you have any suggestions , comments , corrections or additions , please e-mail me : swhite @ ox.compsoc.net . i 've re-organised the timelines , by splitting everything into a series of smaller timelines. there 's still a bit of work to do in sorting out exactly what should be in each timeline and i 've got quite a lot of updating that i want to do. hopefully it 's now much easier to find things , and people on slower connections can avoid downloading the entire timeline ! the entire timeline is still available for those who want it . timelines of computer development links to other related sites bibliography hardware history overview history of the internet history of wimps ( windowing systems ) hardware history overview modern computing can probably be traced back to the 'harvard mk i ' and colossus ( both of 1943 ) . colossus was an electronic computer built in britain at the end 1943 and designed to crack the german coding system - lorenz cipher. the 'harvard mk i ' was a more general purpose electro-mechanical programmable computer built at harvard university with backing from ibm. these computers were among the first of the 'first generation ' computers . first generation computers were normally based around wired circuits containing vacuum valves and used punched cards as the main ( non-volatile ) storage medium. another general purpose computer of this era was 'eniac ' ( electronic numerical integrator and computer ) which was completed in 1946. it was typical of first generation computers , it weighed 30 tonnes contained 18,000 electronic valves and consumed around 25kw of electrical power. it was , however , capable of an amazing 100,000 calculations a second . the next major step in the history of computing was the invention of the transistor in 1947. this replaced the inefficient valves with a much smaller and more reliable component. transistorised computers are normally referred to as 'second generation ' and dominated the late 1950s and early 1960s. despite using transistors and printed circuits these computers were still bulky and strictly the domain of universities and governments . the explosion in the use of computers began with 'third generation ' computers. these relied jack st. claire kilby 's invention - the integrated circuit or microchip ; the first integrated circuit was produced in september 1958 but computers using them did n't begin to appear until 1963 . while large 'mainframes ' such as the i.b.m. 360 increased storage and processing capabilities further , the integrated circuit allowed the development of minicomputers that began to bring computing into many smaller businesses . large scale integration of circuits led to the development of very small processing units , an early example of this is the processor used for analyising flight data in the us navy 's f14a ` tomcat ' fighter jet. this processor was developed by steve geller , ray holt and a team from airesearch and american microsystems . on november 15th , 1971 , intel released the world 's first commercial microprocessor , the 4004. fourth generation computers were developed , using a microprocessor to locate much of the computer 's processing abilities on a single ( small ) chip. coupled with one of intel 's inventions - the ram chip ( kilobits of memory on a single chip ) - the microprocessor allowed fourth generation computers to be even smaller and faster than ever before. the 4004 was only capable of 60,000 instructions per second , but later processors ( such as the 8086 that all of intel 's processors for the ibm pc and compatibles is based ) brought ever increasing speed and power to the computers. supercomputers of the era were immensely powerful , like the cray-1 which could calculate 150 million floating point operations per second. the microprocessor allowed the development of microcomputers , personal computers that were small and cheap enough to be available to ordinary people. the first such personal computer was the mits altair 8800 , released at the end of 1974 , but it was followed by computers such as the apple i & ii , commodore pet and eventually the original ibm pc in 1981 . although processing power and storage capacities have increased beyond all recognition since the 1970s the underlying technology of lsi ( large scale integration ) or vlsi ( very large scale integration ) microchips has remained basically the same , so it is widely regarded that most of today 's computers still belong to the fourth generation. as to whether the 5th generation will be based on parallel computing or on optical chips , or some other new technology - we 'll just have to wait and see what has the greatest impact. such decisions can only be made with hindesight , when you can look back and identify the key turning points . history of the internet the internet 's history can be traced back to arpanet - which was started by the us dept. of defense for research into networking sometime in 1969 . many people wanted to put their ideas into the standards for communication between the computers that made up this network , so a system was devised for putting forward ideas. basically you wrote your ideas in a paper called a 'request for comments ' ( rfc for short ) , and let everyone else read it. people commented on and improved your ideas in new rfcs . the first rfc ( rfc0001 ) was written on april 7th , 1969. there are now well over 2000 rfcs , describing every aspect of how the internet functions . the first interface message processor ( imp ) was plugged in and switched on in len kleinrock 's lab at ucla on 2nd september 1969 , forming the beginning of an real network to test the ideas . arpanet was opened to non-military users later in the 1970s , and early takers were the big universities - although at this stage it resembled nothing like the internet we know today. international connections ( i.e. outside america ) started in 1972 , but the internet was still just a way for computers to talk to each other and for research into networking , there was no world-wide-web and no email as we now know it . it was n't until the early to mid 1980s that the services we now use most on the internet started appearing. the concept of 'domain names ' , things like 'microsoft.com ' , and special ` domain name servers ' was n't even introduced until 1984 - before that all the computers were just addressed by their ip addresses ( numbers ) . most protocols used for email and other services appeared after this - although email itself had been around much longer the way it was sent between institutions was less standardized . the part of the internet most people are probably most familiar with is the world-wide-web. this is a collection of hyperlinked pages of information distributed over the internet via a network protocol called http ( hyper-text-transfer-protocol ) . this was invented by tim berners-lee in 1989. he was a physicist working at cern , the european particle physics laboratory , and wanted a way for physicists to share information about their research - the world-wide-web was his solution. so the web was started , although at this time it was text-only . graphics came later with a browser called ncsa mosaic. both microsoft 's internet explorer and netscape were originally based on ncsa mosaic . the graphical interface opened up the internet to novice users and in 1993 its use exploded as people were allowed to 'dial-in ' to the internet using their computer at home and a modem to ring up an 'internet service provider ' ( isp ) to get their connection to this ( now huge ) network . before this the only computers connected were at universities and other large organisations that could afford to hire cables between each other to transfer the data over - but now anyone could use the internet and it evolved into the 'information superhighway ' that we know and ( possibly ) love today . currently hosts on the internet are identified by a 32 bit number , their 'ip address'. this limits the number of directly connected computers to a theoretical maximum of 2 ^ < sup > 32 < /sup > - or slightly over 4 billion. in practise to make routing simpler ( the process where information packets find the computer they are intended for ) this set of numbers is split into 'netblocks ' which wastes some of them. in order to increase the number to accomodate further expansion it is intended eventually to move to addresses consisting of 128 bits , but at present only a handfull of computers are setup to understand such addresses and it is only really used for research and development . history of windowing systems the first concept of a windowing ( or wimp - windows , icons , menus and pointers ) system appeared inside the xerox palo alto research center ( parc ) in 1973. the 'alto ' computer was only availably internally , it was n't until 1981 that xerox released the refined version to the world : the 8010 ( 'star ' ) system. this idea was then used by apple , first for the applie 'lisa ' , and then again in 1984 as they developed the macos operating system for use on their apple macintosh . microsoft followed on , releasing the first version of 'windows ' in 1985 . windows was a gui ( graphic user interface ) for their own operating system ( ms-dos ) that had been shipped with ibm pc and compatible computers since 1981 . windows was designed to look a bit like macos but unfortunately it was so similar that apple decided to take microsoft to court over it .. a court case that was to run for many years . this first version of windows was n't very powerful and so not very popular. popularity increased with the release of windows 2 in 1987. the first really popular version of microsoft windows was version 3.0 , released in 1990. this benefited from the improved graphics available on pcs by this time , and also from the 80386 processor which allowed 'true ' multitasking of the windows applications. this made it more efficient and more reliable when running more than one piece of software at a time. it would even allow you to run and multitask older ms-dos based software. windows 3 made the ibm pc a serious piece of competition for the apple mac. various improvements - windows 3.1 and windows 3.11 were released , although to the user they looked very similar to windows 3 . also available at a similar time to windows 3 was ibm 's os/2 ( which was actually written in partnership with microsoft ) . this was followed by os/2 warp , which was a full 32 bit operating system designed exclusively for the 80386 and better processors. it came out long before windows 95 , and boasted many similar features. unfortunately ibm failed to market it successfully enough and it did n't catch on . windows 95 was released in 1995 ( no surprises there ) , in august . although it shared much code with windows 3 and even ms-dos , windows 95 had two big advantages. first , it was an entire operating system , you no-longer needed to buy ms-dos and then install windows on top of it . second it was specially written for 80386 and better processors and made 'full ' use of the 32 bit facilities. in this respect windows 95 moved closer to windows nt . windows nt ( new technology ) was developed alongside windows for use on servers and businesses. it is designed to be more reliable and secure than windows 95 , but as a trade-off it is less compatible with older ms-dos based software ( crucially for the home market it wo n't run many video games ) . 1998 ( june 25 ) saw the release of windows 98 , which is very similar to windows 95 , except that it provided an improved filing system ( which controls the way data is stored on disks ) , the improvements allowed it to support disks larger than the 2 gb allowed by the first release of windows 95. windows 98 also brought support for usb and agp . it was microsoft 's aim - with windows 2000 - to merge the two seperate versions of windows ( windows 95/8 and windows nt ) into one product. this failed. windows 2000 was based on windows nt , internally it often refers to itself as 'nt 5 ' , but it boasts a slightly prettier interface and a more exciting name than previous members of the nt series. because of the memory protection ( which helps provide reliability and security for the nt series ) , windows 2000 is unable to run some of the 'legacy software ' ( in particular games ) that windows 95 and 98 can. this resulted in the development of windows millenium edition ( me ) , a new member the 95/98 family . the next major release of microsoft windows was 'windows xp ' , again the intention of microsoft was that this release would replace both the older versions of windows : nt/2000 and the 95/8/me family. again windows xp is a really a continuation of the windows nt product line , but this time microsoft were successful in selling it to the home users that traditionally bought 95 , 98 or me. this success was partially because of improved technology , but largely because a long time ( 6 years or more ) had passed since the first release of windows 95 ( which marked the end of ms-dos development ) . this meant that much of the 'legacy ' ms-dos/non-windows software ( and in particular games ) that caused problems under windows 2000 had been re-written or replaced to work properly under windows , so was no longer such an issue for windows xp . all this leaves the question of the court case between apple and microsoft , the one apple started in 1985 by trying to sue microsoft for copying the 'look and feel ' of their operating system. well the answer was that in 1997 , august 6 , after 18 months of losses by apple , microsoft helped 'bail ' them out of serious financial trouble by buying 100,000 non-voting shares in the company for $ 150 million. microsoft had several political reasons for doing this , but one condition was that apple had to drop this long-running court case . it is also worth mentioning another windowing system , the 'x window system' . this was developed at mit , starting in 1984 , for use on graphics workstations . due largely to the availability of the source code used to write it , it has become the standard graphical interface on many unix based systems - including most linux distributions. although the x window system provides functionality for drawing and moving windows on the screen and also for providing a mouse cursor it provides none of the user interface features ( such as buttons , menus , window title bars and so on ) that people expect. these features are provided by other pieces of software , window managers , graphics toolkits , and the like . the most popular graphical desktop environments under linux rely on the x window system but also provide all of the other features themselves - so providing an integrated and uniform interface to the user. most popular of these are kde and gnome. solaris users have cde , which provides similar functionality for their workstations . © copyright 1996-2004 , my homepage - email : swhite @ ox.compsoc.net
