temporarily ordinary content has been removed in order to instead host our individual dvdtalk october horror movie challenge. feel free to join in ! the blog can be found at : horrormovienews.wordpress.com mini-reviews provided for the horror movie challenge because of the nature of this challenge i ’ ll be writing mini-reviews of the titles i view. i won ’ t be delving into the extras on the dvd ( assuming it ’ s a dvd , i ’ ll be watching many yet to be released films ) and will often refer to actors by characters , instead of character names or actor names. after this is over i do plan on going back and fill in the gaps with who played which character etc. so for the time being if i say that the landlady was exceptional that doesn ’ t mean that i don ’ t have respect for who played the landlady or her name , it simple means that in the moment that i was writing the mini-review i wasn ’ t taking the time to look up the facts. october 1st : 3. you 'll find out this is a fairly typical early 40 ’ s haunted house comedy , a genre i generally don ’ t enjoy , but it has a few differences... read more here... 2. house of long shadows i hadn ’ t watched this in probaby 10 years easily , and my memory was always negative . i don ’ t know , maybe it was because peter cushing and vincent read more here... 1. basket case basket case could be written off as just another low-budget direct-to-video attempt of it ’ s era , but instead it winds up as a fun and whimsical horror comedy that has held it ’ s own through the years . it ’ s the story of a siamese twin surgery gone wrong read more here... the final countdown starting october 1st at 12 : 00am i will be joining with many other members are dvdtalk.com in order to attempt the october horror movie challenge , a challenge to watch 100 horror movies in 31 days . my personal goal is 200 , but i believe that 250 is entirely possible. at first i toyed with the thought of 300 , but the more i ’ ve thought about that figure the less possible it seemed , so i ’ m crossing my fingers and hoping for 250 . i will be blogging my experience of devoting 31 days and nights to the horror genre , and with a lot of luck , i won ’ t go insane in the meantime. the preperation has been odd at times. there ’ s a sub-challenge that involves watching particular films on particular days , so i ’ ve had to round those up. a sub-sub-challenge that deals with a checklist , i imagine i ’ ll accomplish everything within that checklist except for 1890 ’ s and 1900 ’ s , i do love classic film , but i don ’ t own any films from those decades and don ’ t intend to seek them out. the challenge also allows 6 wild cards , encouraging people to watch such seminal classics as it ’ s the great pumpkin charlie brown,undoubtedly some will abuse this break from feature films to watch short you tube videos , so be it. rules don ’ t need to be too harsh however , it should be a personal challenge instead of a competition , cheating at this is like cheating at solitaire , what good does that do anyone ? initially i was planning on themed days , and had made lists and was excited about those lists. i believe i ’ ve decided instead to watch what i feel like in the moment and only use the lists as guides if i can ’ t decide . i encourage everyone to watch horror films in the month of october , and if you don ’ t think you can do 100 ( or 250 ) make a personal goal. 31 , 12 , or 2 , whatever , just please be honest about your choices and have fun ! horrormovienews.com newest updates new contests ! alone with her dvd contest mr . brooks signed poster contest be a dvd reviewer !
