home about contact submission guidelines plot generator rss subscribe : posts | comments | e-mail flames rising /header blogs features articles contest previews fiction interviews artists authors game designers movies & tv musicians news events flames rising promotions resources reviews comics fiction flash fire music nonfiction other games rpgs tv & movies video games archives /nav featured articles 13th age bestiary now available ! the 13th age bestiary introduces all-new creatures for the 13th age roleplaying game , plus surprising takes on some of your favorite monsters. it includes the fun and flexible mechanics you expect from 13th age – and it makes every monster an adventure in its own right , with story hooks , icon relationships , customisable campaign elements and more advice on building exciting battles . because we made it so easy to create your own monsters in 13th age , we had to make the creatures in this book truly amazing ; so we designed cool and unexpected mechanics for each creature that bring something truly new to the game , and story options that can serve as the starting point for a single adventure or an entire campaign . shannon appelcline ’ s designers & dragons kickstarter ! designers & dragons is a four volume book series of rpg industry awesomeness , meticulously researched and prettily packaged. author shannon appelcline guides you company by company through the history of tabletop starting in the 1970s all the way up to present day. this series is chock full of fascinating insider tidbits , company profiles , and yes — enough drama to fuel a hundred campaigns . evil hat productions is incredibly proud to produce this updated edition of designers & dragons. you may remember the first edition that came out from the lovely people at mongoose publishing — we ’ d wanted to publish it then , but missed the chance ! so we leapt at the opportunity to take it on once their one-volume version went out of print . no soul left behind kickstarter launched a full-length , 10-adventure campaign for better angels , the tabletop rpg of demon-possessed supervillainy . better angels is a tabletop roleplaying game where you play a supervillain who got powers from being possessed by a demon — and you play the demon who ’ s possessing the supervillain of the player to your right . as a supervillain , you use your superpowers to do … well , whatever you want. you ’ re a supervillain. as the other player ’ s demon , you tempt that supervillain with more power in exchange for greater and greater acts of evil. but beware ! if you ’ re too evil , your demon can drag you kicking and screaming right to hell. it ’ s sort of like the legion of doom crossed with the lucifer-centric parts of sandman. ( and maybe the exorcist if you ’ re not careful. ) better angels was published in 2013 after a great kickstarter campaign. a standalone adventure is available , too , plus a ton of free online resources . now we have the first full-size campaign book for it : no soul left behind . archer & armstrong headed to big screen as revealed exclusively at the hollywood reporter , new york-based comic book publisher valiant entertainment today announced that they are adapting their award-winning comic book series , archer & armstrong , into a feature film. valiant has partnered with the sean daniel company ( the mummy , best man holiday , mgm ’ s upcoming ben-hur ) for the production and has funded a script from writer bendavid grabinski. the film will be produced by sean daniel , jason brown , and dinesh shamdasani . archer & armstrong is an action-adventure/buddy comedy colliding a drunk , delinquent immortal who has given up on saving the world and the idealistic young man who needs him for a globetrotting quest to stop history ’ s oldest conspiracy from toppling modern civilization . unframed : the art of improvisation for game masters improvisation is key to running any roleplaying game. it ’ s an essential skill for every game master and player , and can mean the difference between a good gaming session and a great one. until now , there hasn ’ t been a system-neutral book that covers improvisation for game masters from every angle . unframed : the art of improvisation for game masters is that book. an anthology of 23 essays by a diverse group of award-winning authors , designers , and experienced game masters , unframed gives you the tools and inspiration to improvise better , “ wing it ” without hesitation , and get killer results . 13th age bestiary now available ! shannon appelcline ’ s designers & dragons kickstarter ! no soul left behind kickstarter launched archer & armstrong headed to big screen unframed : the art of improvisation for game masters news firefly echoes of war : thrillin ’ heroics echoes of war : thrillin ’ heroics combines the first four stand-alone adventures in the echoes of war line released on drivethrurpg with the serenity crew release into one , easy-to-reference pdf. these episodes were written by margaret weis , andrew peregrine , monica valentinelli , and nicole wakeli … trail of cthulhu : the final revelation the more you discover , the more the mythos infects your mind. your friends can not be trusted , your knowledge means nothing , and everything you hold dear turns to dust . the final revelation collects for the first time the four sanity-destroying purist adventures for trail of cthulhu written by award … we will destroy your planet an alien ’ s guide to conquering the earth it ’ s a pseudo-nonfiction , ‘ how-to ’ military handbook for aliens intending to conquer the earth. it both looks at how all the elements are handled in sf , and satirizes them , and then brings real-world science , history , and military sciences to sh … industry pro ? sign up for gencon 2014 workshops ! for the first time , the gen con writer ’ s symposium is offering free professional-level workshops for game and publishing industry professionals. these invite-only workshops will cover building a publicity strategy , running successful kickstarters , migrating a brand into a new genre/market , an … reviews trail of cthulhu eternal lies review every so often i get something to review that i have no idea what i ’ m getting myself into. getting a copy of eternal lies campaign book for the trail of cthuhlu rpg ( from pelgrane press ) to review was one of those times. i ’ ve played trail of cthulhu once or twice at gaming cons , i ’ m familiar … gygax magazine # 1 review from the moment i opened up the pdf on my laptop i knew gygax , a quarterly adventure roleplaying aid , was going to tap into everything that has made gaming great since the beginning. the cover was “ classic ” in every way and it reminded me of the many old dragon magazines i have flipped through … dept. of monsterology : issue 3 of 4 review hey there fans of flames rising ! i got ta tell you , i was pretty excited about diving into issue # 3 of the dept. of monsterology. so far the issue has been well written , possesses some good , witty dialogue , and the artwork has been spot on in setting the feel and tone of this pulp-supernatural serie … monsterhearts rpg review monsterhearts should come with two warning stickers. the first is “ warning : this is a game for mature gamers and deals with adult themes. ” it doesn ’ t have this because that sort of warning fits the book of erotic fantasy rather than a genuinely mature take on the subject matter. it has lea … interviews matt forbeck : monster academy and his “ 12-for-12 ″ campaign matt forbeck has been a bit busy over the past year. he started a series of kikcstarters to support and promote a crazy idea : that he could write and prepare for publication one novel a month for twelve months. i caught up with matt recently to ask him about one of the most recent books in that ser … interview with “ tale of the wisconsin werewolf ” author edison t. crux edison t. crux is an author whose first novel , “ tale of the wisconsin werewolf ” debuts on december 15. the author will be attending an event at pegasus games visionary comics ’ c. edward sellner talks shop c. edward sellner is the chief creative officer for visionary comics , having launched the studio in 2006. having embraced the digital publishing revolution several years ago , visionary is currently one of the largest digital publishing houses in the comics industry . we sat down with mr. sellner to … jeremy penter tells us about the afterearth kickstarter jeremy penter is the lead developer of afterearth : the fall , a rpg currently on kickstarter. this rpg offers a mash-up of post-apocalyptic setting with dark fantasy elements. it also offers the chance for all backers to have a say in the development of the game . flames rising sat down to talk about … fiction an excerpt from greg stolze ’ s mask of the other in 1974 , something came out of the sea during the invasion of cyprus , killing greeks and turks indiscriminately until it was bombed into dormancy and entombed . in 1988 a rock band disappeared while filming on an abandoned island-town off the coast of japan. in 1991 , a squad of us infantry was attac … excerpts from the new gothic by stone skin press don ’ t embrace the darkness. fear it . the gothic is the most enduring literary tradition in history , but in recent years friendly ghosts and vegetarian vampires threaten its foundations. the new gothic is a collection of short stories which revisits the core archetypes of the gothic – th … chapter one of night of the hunter : companions codex , i by r.a. salvatore r.a. salvatore ’ s new york times best-selling saga continues as drizzt do ’ urden and the companions of the hall join forces in an adventure filled with drow intrigue , the likes of which have not been seen in salvatore ’ s work since the hugely successful the war of the spider queen se … chapter one of into the reach by alana abbott in the land of eranon , the reach is a desolate place where people journey to forget who they are. now , a menace rises from this wasteland , and he is hunting for someone. to keep the madman and his chaos behind the reach , four adventurers with haunted pasts must rise to the challenge. but how can fa … blogs 2013 : our year in the horror mines we ’ re lillian cohen-moore and ryan macklin , a couple in seattle who love to play with horror. you might know us from our work on the recent mage : the ascension books that focused on factions within the technocratic union. what you might not know , though , is that we met and bonded over playing … gamers give kids extra life i ’ ve been a gamer for my entire life. i ’ ve seen games provide entertainment , education , and bring families together. but one of the coolest ( and most important ) thing that games and gamers can do is to make the world a better place ! over the last few years , gamers have organized to raise money … ghouls by night , an outline via open development i ’ m doing a little freelance rpg development for onyx path publishing in the off hours from my “ day job ” as marketing director for drivethrucomics , drivethrurpg and related sites. as a developer i get to pitch new ideas for books and focus on the overall concept and design , while … little fears nightmare edition – blessed are the children kickstarter blessed are the children is the third book in the acclaimed tabletop horror game line little fears nightmare edition. little fears nightmare edition book 3 : blessed are the children is the third main book in the acclaimed roleplaying game line of childhood terror. the new edition of the original ga … /col1 /search 11 tales of ghostly horror /widget monthly newsletter sign up begin mailchimp signup form join our monthly mailing list * indicates required email address * close end mc_embed_signup /widget the devil ’ s night wod sas /widget become a fan on facebook ! www.flamesrising.com on facebook /widget reviews wanted ! the new review guidelines have been posted on the flames rising website. we are currently seeking a few good reviewers to help us expand our collection of horror and dark fantasy reviews. rpgs , fiction , movies , video games and more are all welcome on the site.. . what do you get out of it ? beyond helping out fellow flames rising readers by letting them know what you think of these products , we 're giving away some pretty cool stuff. regular reviewers can earn free products to review , which is their to keep after the review is submitted to the site . note : we are especially looking for folks interested in reviewing ebooks ( both fiction & comics ) . we have lots of great titles in digital format and even get advance copies sometimes . use the contact page to submit reviews or let us know if you have any questions . /widget /subcol /col2 /columns copyright © flames rising . /footer /page
