iso-8859-1 home news reviews features forum video games photos directory vod content wrapper box_1_4 register today movies discussions horror stuff black button / flexible width sign up columns start here - first left , second center , third right column box_1_1 horror forum last seen contemporary movie by michaelmyers memorable music scenes in movies by chronogrl the great hdc showdown iii - women of horror by _____v_____ what song are you listening to right now ? by bloodrayne recent acquisitions . by shanks post a picture of yourself 3.0 by jay o2 waster last seen t.v. show by dantehorrorfan hey horror hellions ! by gray oddities what is demon flower ? by caowriter what movie is the picture from game . by xtrava more topics box_1_2 exclusives start exclusives table japanese horror : wonderfest 2006 grudge ii masakatsu sashie tokyo zombie toy fest 2005 character con 21 design festa 22 kenichi yokono shovel head wonder fest 2005 geisai 9 tokyo anime fair tokyo robot show geisai 8 japanese horror movie reviews interviews : peter jackson kate beckinsale eli roth hugh jackman guillermo del toro krypt kiddies rob zombie charlie sheen spencer davis warwick davis end exclusives table box_1_3 horror links horror masks horror toys asian horror dvds horror top sites horror posters asian dvds movie posters forum archives box_center_top featured horror box_center_middle latest horror reviews halloween countdown of 2012 's top ten horror films it 's that trick-or-treat time of the year again , when even the pedestrians are thinking about horror movies. pretty much anything scary will do , for those not in the know … but what about we connoisseurs of chills ? from the cool and ... silent hill : revelation movie review i 'm not a fan of the " quest " movie , in which " the chosen one " must avenge the death of a " lost loved one " , fighting " demonic forces " in order to " save humanity " and all that rot. ( not the ... the bay movie review just when i thought it was safe to go back in the water … here comes the bay ! a film with tons going against the tide — directed by barry levinson ( best-known for his comedies ) , it 's an eco-horror ( oooh … seaweed. scary ! ) , yet ... stoker preview & movie overview i was invited on set to watch some of park chan-wook 's first english-language horror film , stoker , being shot , and then was fortunate enough to get a sneak peek at the entire film on the fox studios lot a few months back. i was truly blown away , ... vamps dvd blu-ray movie review do you miss the 80s , back when vampire movies were goofy , silly , and a bit sweet ? are you fan of once bitten , fright night , and buffy the vampire slayer ? then be sure and check your local listings for the limited theatrical release of amy ... more horror.com reviews box_center_middle horror.com news the echo game on demand brian feeney 's violent and sexually charged indie cult horror thriller the echo game is back for a second run on time warner cable and comcast xfinity 's on demand services. the film stars alisha seaton ( of the fourth kind , a darker reality , ... bristled : the howl chronicles fleur de lis film studios announces new horror comedy bristled : the howl chronicles at afm 2012 fleur de lis film studios is an official exhibitor at the american film market 2012 , presenting its film and television slate for ... curse of chucky - production begins principal photography begins on the all-new universal dvd original ® on september 5 in winnipeg " curse of chucky " universal city , california , september 5 , 2012 &... cult sensation chuck palahniuk 's making a snuff film award-winning french filmmaker fabien martorell ( tromatized : meet lloyd kaufman ) is set to adapt and direct snuff written by ny times best seller / cult sensation chuck palahniuk ( fight club , choke ) . martorell will direct the script that he co- ... new extended info & intro to stephanie meyer 's the host synopsis : the host , published in 2008 , was stephenie meyer ’ s highly anticipated follow-up to the wildly popular and acclaimed twilight series. the book was # 1 on the new york times bestseller list for 26 weeks and continues to be an ... more horror.com news box_2_1 latest articles jack and diane - fast 5 questions with bradley rust gray by staci layne wilson jack and diane is one of the latest thrillers being marketed ( kind of ) as a horror movie. though the& ... in their skin - fast 5 questions with james d'arcy by staci layne wilson i met james d'arcy a few months ago on a short film shoot at my friend emma ... jumping-off point for shorts night at the jumpcut caf é last night at the newly-opened jumpcut caf é in studio city , ca. , filmmaker elric d. kane hosted a gala movie night , showcasing ... silence ! the musical - live performance review this ribald , razzmatazz retelling of the oscar-winning and awfully frightful film the silence of the lambs — in dulcet musical tones ... bowling for boobies charity event - supporting the " horror starlets " team coverage and pictures by staci layne wilson last night 's annual bowling for boobies breast cancer was a big success ! our ... paranormal paparazzi - exclusive fast 5 q&a with aaron sagers this cool new original series from the travel channel ( and presented by our friends over at dread central ) " paranormal paparazzi " features .. . more articles box_2_2 multimedia filthy gore bleedfest women in horror film festival 2010 viscera film festival 2010 events eyegore awards horror airbrush on leather latest horror movie images - summer 2009 comic-con 2009 friday comic-con 2009 thursday friday the 13th deluxe edition dvd launch party more multimedia box_2_3 horror games our database of every horror movie ever made. rate movies , find info , add stuff . red button / flexible width view all google ad bottom footer box - links f1 community forum login register my inbox f2 articles reviews interviews news features f3 multimedia horror trailers horror pictures video interviews top rated videos f4 horror games latest games zombie games vampires games top players f5 terms & policy privacy policy terms & conditions copyright / juuce © 2009 horror.com design by
