join our newsletter about meet the rue crew contact us magazine latest issue rue morgue digital back issues subscribe blog where to buy become a retailer events cinemacabre conventions halloween party appearances photo gallery shoppe extras hymns from the house of horror rue morgue podcast contests roadkill banners advertise community the mortuary links conventions festival of fear toronto festival of fear vancouver festival of fear dallas rm cinema about upcoming screenings in production releases buy the dvd contact rue morgue rue morgue library vol. ii : horror movie heroes pre-orders available now. read more sinister seven doug jones exclusive interview with the man behind the mask ( s ) . read more cinemacabre the editor astron-6 's latest comes to tiff . read more horror news silent hills kojima , del toro & reedus on next-gen consoles . read more ghoulish galleries anathema photography spotlight on vancouver 's horror photographer . read more jj code here top five thursdays top five thursdays : the parent trap rue morgue on august 14 , 2014 | leave a comment it ’ s thursday , so it must be time for another top five. this week , will foran looks at the ties that bind ( and occasionally choke ) us , with his choices for top five best ( worst ) parents . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here festival of fear cinemacabre : festival of fear edition presents wes craven ’ s new nightmare rue morgue on august 13 , 2014 | leave a comment join us for a very special festival of fear edition of cinemacabre , with a 20th anniversary screening of wes craven ’ s new nightmare at the royal. read on for more . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here horror news kojima , del toro and reedus : new silent hill teaser rue morgue on august 13 , 2014 | leave a comment a new silent hill game ? developed by hideo kojima and guillermo del toro ? with norman reedus as the lead character ? all true. read on for the first details of the franchise ’ s latest incarnation . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here rue morgue podcast , uncategorized episode 168 : german sparkle party feedback on august 13 , 2014 | 1 comment feedback , lance & winston consume copious amounts of coke & cheese and read letters from the listeners . as mentioned on this episode , here ’ s the video lance threatened to do if we lost the rondo hatton classic horror award : read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here audio drome doyle annihilates america ! rue morgue on august 12 , 2014 | leave a comment former misfit guitarist doyle wolfgang von frankenstein is on the road for the annihilate america tour. will the monster be coming to your town ? read on and find out ! read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here monstro bizarro monstro bizarro : ‘ swamp monsters ’ and ‘ monsters underground ’ invade tv lyle blackburn on august 12 , 2014 | 1 comment the wave of cryptid-inspired television continues with two new shows debuting on discovery ’ s destination america channel. swamp monsters and monsters underground take the psuedo-fictional approach of their successful show , mountain monsters , to new and scarier places across america . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here cinemacabre septic man : your first ( disgusting ) look rue morgue on august 11 , 2014 | leave a comment septic man , a film we described as a “ visceral story that will leave you shaken – and desperate for a shower ” , is coming your way. but don ’ t take our word for it. check out the opening scene … and hold onto your lunch. ( ps : nsfw ) . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here ghoulish galleries spotlight : anathema photography rue morgue on august 8 , 2014 | leave a comment “ the darkness can be mesmerizing , scary , romantic and humorous. through my photography i am able to express my passion by capturing the world of horror , humour and erotica through the eye of my camera. ” this passage is taken from the mission statement of vancouver ’ s anaethema photography , the brainchild of sisters , danielle anathema and christine lyon. at turns dark , visceral and erotic , anethema ’ s work straddles the fine line between haunting beauty and visceral shock. rue morgue ’ s ron mckenzie had the opportunity to talk to both danielle and christine about their work , including their very first venture into film , a gift for amelia . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here creepy culture top five thursday : home is where the haunt is rue morgue on august 7 , 2014 | 7 comments another thursday , another top five. and this time , rm intern brett mcneill will be taking us on a tour of cinema ’ s most disturbed domiciles. so come inside … if you dare … read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here jj code here cinemacabre astron-6 ′ s the editor comes to tiff rue morgue on august 7 , 2014 | leave a comment from its initial appearance as a movie poster for a fictional film ( as part of rue morgue ’ s if they came from within art show ) to its incredibly-successful indiegogo campaign , it ’ s been a long , strange road for the editor , the latest project by winnipeg troublemakers , astron-6 ( father ’ s day , manborg ) .well , yesterday saw the culmination of this journey , with the announcement that the editor is the 10th and final film listed for tiff ’ s midnight madness series . read more jj code end deleted stuff from loop goes here ← older posts # nav-below # content # ja-content # container search for : recent posts top five thursdays : the parent trap cinemacabre : festival of fear edition presents wes craven ’ s new nightmare kojima , del toro and reedus : new silent hill teaser episode 168 : german sparkle party doyle annihilates america ! recent comments kris " elm " on episode 168 : german sparkle party fdbk on episode 161 : peter strickland fdbk on episode 161 : peter strickland fdbk on don lanning video interview – vol. iii thomas tate on top five thursday : home is where the haunt is # primary .widget-area # rightcol # wp-main rue morgue # site-info blog powered by wordpress. joomla ! extension by 'corephp ' # site-generator # colophon # wp-footer # wp-wrapper .body_class # wordpress categories audio drome blood in four colours blood on a budget calgary expo cinemacabre contests creepy culture cryptic collectibles daddy 's little monster featured posts festival of fear ghoulish galleries horror news mondo mark monstro bizarro news and events ninth circle road kill rue morgue cinema rue morgue digital rue morgue finery rue morgue podcast rue morgue radio shoppe of horror sinister seven three dimensions of terror top five thursdays uncategorized zirco art lab authors alan kelly april snellings dave alexander feedback gary pullin james burrell james zirco fisher jessa sobczuk justin erickson kiva reardon lyle blackburn mark r. hasan moaner t. lawrence monica s. kuebler patrick dolan paul counelis rue morgue sean plummer trevor tuminski pages archives # jprimary .widget-area blog ads are here monica : ad blocks are here about magazine events shoppe extras advertise community conventions rm cinema ( c ) 2014 marrs media inc. all rights reserved. privacy policy
