bgn toplinks add a site : modify site : what 's new : what 's cool : top rated : random link : horror search : featured listings : free horror fonts : link to horror.net : home end toplinks bgn header end header bgn menulinks horror.net : : the web 's deadliest horror network thousands of horror sites for you to search in our directory ! end menulinks bgn sidelinks add your site modify your site what 's new what 's cool top rated sites random link directory search featured listings advertise here free horror fonts link to horror.net horror movie reviews horror fiction reviews end sidelinks bgn left ad begin horror.net 160x600 homepage ads end horror.net 160x600 homepage ads end left ad bgn horror info what is horror ? horror is the feeling of revulsion that usually occurs after something frightening is seen , heard , or otherwise experienced. it is the feeling one gets after coming to an awful realization or experiencing a hideous revelation. horror has also been defined as a combination of terror and revulsion. we are horror... we are horror.net. bgn horror info bgn frightmaster end frightmaster bgn top ad begin horror.net 728x90 homepage ads end horror.net 728x90 homepage ads end top ad bgn main body bgn content horror.net horror search and directory categories general horror ( 1084 ) new general horror sites halloween ( 372 ) halloween sites haunted houses ( 562 ) haunted house sites horror art ( 399 ) horror art sites horror collectibles ( 154 ) horror toy sites horror fiction ( 695 ) horror fiction sites horror movies ( 994 ) horror movie sites horror music ( 395 ) new horror music sites horror people ( 183 ) people in horror horror television ( 67 ) horror tv sites occult-gothic ( 329 ) occult/gothic sites science fiction ( 86 ) sci-fi related sites there are 5321 horror sites for you to search in our directory ! visit our network of horror movie and game sites horror.net : horror search engine and directory buried.com : horror movies horror fiction and more samhain.com : halloween search engine and directory hauntedhouses.net : directory of haunted houses & attractions horrormovies.org : horror and sci-fi movies database screamqueen.com : the hottest actresses in horror movies cryptcrawl.com : horror and halloween directory firstfright.com : horror press releases & horror news frightmaster.com : your horror guide and shopping randomsanity.com : horror forum and message board leatherface.com : the texas chainsaw massacre tribute site evildead.net : the evil dead tribute site jasonvoorhees.com : friday the 13th tribute site michaelmyers.net : halloween tribute site freddykrueger.com : a nightmare on elm street tribute site living-dead.com : the living dead tribute site mortalkombat.net : mortal kombat video games & movies horror is the feeling of revulsion that usually occurs after something frightening is seen , heard , or otherwise experienced. it is the feeling one gets after coming to an awful realization or experiencing a hideous revelation. horror has also been defined as a combination of terror and revulsion. we are horror... we are horror.net . horror movies are movies that strive to capture responses of fear , horror and terror from viewers. their plots frequently involve themes of death , the supernatural or mental illness. horror movies also usually include a central villain. early horror movies were largely based on classic literature of the gothic/horror genre , such as dracula , frankenstein , the wolf man , phantom of the opera and dr. jekyll and mr. hyde. more recent horror movies , in contrast , often draw inspiration from the insecurities of life after world war ii , giving rise to the three distinct , but related , sub-genres : the horror-of-personality psycho film , the horror-of-armageddon invasion of the bodysnatchers film , and the horror-of-the-demonic the exorcist film. the last sub-genre may be seen as a modernized transition from the earliest horror movies , expanding on their emphasis on supernatural agents that bring horror to the world . horror movies have been dismissed as violent , low budget b-movies and exploitation films. nonetheless , all the major studios and many respected directors , including alfred hitchcock , roman polanski , stanley kubrick , william friedkin , richard donner , francis ford coppola , and george romero have made forays into the genre. serious critics have analyzed horror movies through the prisms of genre theory and the auteur theory. some horror movies incorporate elements of other genres such as science fiction , fantasy , mockumentary , black comedy , and thrillers . check out these horror movie reviews courtesy of buried.com bgn sponsor links sponsored horror links link 1 mortal kombat nightmares - welcome to our world mortal kombat nightmares is the premiere source for all that is mortal kombat. complete coverage of the entire mk series . link 1 link 2 buried horror movie reviews horror movies , horror movie reviews , fiction reviews , interviews , conventions , horror editorials , special features & alot more from the guys your mom warned you about . link 2 link 3 scream queen of the month featuring the hottest ladies in horror. from scream queens to b-movie babes , we have them all ! the horror hotties are here ! link 3 halloween special < b > < a href = " http : //www.samhain.com/featured/signup.shtml " > want to list your halloween site here for 6 months ? < /a > < /b > < br > < a href = " http : //www.samhain.com/featured/signup.shtml " > signup now < /a > to have your halloween website featured here and on every page of our site ! choose < b > < a href = " http : //www.samhain.com/featured/signup.shtml " > site-wide featured text listing < /a > < /b > ! < br > halloween special end sponsor links end content begin right categories horror categories general horror halloween haunted houses horror art horror collectibles horror fiction horror movies horror music horror people horror television occult-gothic science fiction 1000 's of horror sites to search begin horror search search horror.net end horror search end right categories bgn movie reviews new horror movie reviews by buried.com proxy ( 2013 ) new night of the living dead : re-animation ( 2012 ) new 300 : rise of an empire ( 2014 ) new umbrage ( 2009 ) new godzilla ( 2014 ) new tarzan ( 2013 ) labyrinth ( 2012 ) legendary ( 2013 ) open grave ( 2013 ) host , the ( 2013 ) » more horror movie reviews end movie reviews bgn right ad begin horror.net 300x250 homepage ads end horror.net 300x250 homepage ads end right ad bgn fiction reviews new horror fiction reviews by buried.com [ an error occurred while processing this directive ] » more horror fiction reviews end fiction reviews begin recent movies horror movies in theaters » more godzilla 05.16.2014 the quiet ones 04.25.2014 transcendence 04.18.2014 end recent movies begin recent screamqueens recent scream queens » more brooke lewis 10.2012 monica rae autumn 09.2012 michelle shields 08.2012 end recent screamqueens end main body bgn ad bottom end ad bottom bgn botlinks horror movies tribute sites : : the texas chainsaw massacre : : the evil dead : : friday the 13th : : halloween : : a nightmare on elm street : : the living dead end botlinks bgn horror network horror.net horror search engine and directory buried.com horror movies horror fiction and more samhain halloween search engine and directory haunted houses directory of haunted houses & attractions horror movies horror and sci-fi movies database scream queens the hottest actresses in horror movies crypt crawl horror and halloween directory first fright horror press releases & horror news frightmaster your horror guide and shopping randomsanity horror forum and message board end horror network bgn botlinks 2 horror video games sites : : mortal kombat - mk video games & movies coverage - mortal kombat nightmares - welcome to our world of mortal kombat end botlinks 2 bgn disclaimer horror.net : : the web 's deadliest horror network ž | providing horror sites , horror search results & more since 07/31/02 . copyright © 1998- horror.net : : the web 's deadliest horror network . property of glassplanet design . web hosting by glassplanet end disclaimer bgn 728x90 horror network google ads end 728x90 horror network google ads
