< ! [ endif ] agideas home organisation join search for : main menu skip to primary content skip to secondary content creative masters design for business newstar design awards for children about agideas is a program of world class design events and resources that make connections between those seeking innovation and some of the most original minds on the planet. here you will find opportunities for designers , researchers , businesses , secondary schools , primary schools and everyone in the community who demands a world that looks and works better . programme over the years , agideas has brought together large gatherings of local and international designers in its celebrated international design forums. and other supporting events … more subscribe to the newsletter stay updated on upcoming agideas events by subscribing to the upcoming agideas newsletter. learn more about and support future agideas events … more design archive as part of its commitment to the design industry , agideas is continuously updating its designer archive , with information about past speakers , their work , and selected video excerpts … more our supporters it would not have been possible for agideas events to have run for so long and so successfully over the years without the amazing support that the event has received from its various sponsors … more featured speaker : wesley burt wesley burt is a concept artist with massive black in san francisco , one of the world ’ s biggest and most successful design studios for video games and film … more featured speaker : harry pearce a partner at pentagram uk since 2006 , harry pearce is a highly successful designer with a deep concern for human rights … more featured speaker : luke lucas luke lucas is a designer with a highly successful self-made career in art direction , illustration , design and typography spanning two decades … more featured speaker : andr é s stalman known as ‘ mr branding ’ in spain and latin america , andy stalman has developed design projects in more than twenty-five countries … more featured speaker : gemma o'brien unquestionably fanatical about her craft , sydney-based typographer gemma o ’ brien works primarily with hand-drawn lettering … more featured speaker : dan formosa a founding member of the cutting-edge industrial design studio smart design , dan formosa has found ways , simply through design … more featured speaker : neville page as a concept designer , illustrator and creature designer , neville page has contributed his skills to some of hollywood ’ s top films … more featured speaker : agnete enga industrial designer agnete enga is a founding member of femme den , the new york team of design researchers … more featured speaker : madethought one of the uk ’ s most respected design consultancies , madethought is acclaimed for its work in brand identity and development … more featured speaker : roger dean uk artist roger dean is perhaps best known for his album covers for groups such as yes , asia and pink floyd … more featured speaker : nadine chahine dr. nadine chahine is a renowned lebanese type designer , presently working as the arabic specialist at linotype and monotype … more featured speaker : leah heiss leah heiss is a melbourne-based artist and designer who uses advanced technologies to develop potent human-scale projects … more © agideas | contact us
