aod banner area of design showcases established and emerging artists , designers , commercial firms , and non profit groups . our mission is to inspire others by encouraging , educating , and nurturing creative talent . follow aod on : vestige jewelry vintage jewelry katie glantz visual artist isabel varela fashion designer www.izavelstudio.com all images have been used with permission. all images are copyrighted and strictly for educational and viewing purposes . dallas-based isabel varela is a southwest louisiana girl with cultural influences from panama and honduras . while pursuing her bachelor of science degree in apparel design from louisiana state university , isabel interned at the prestigious bcbgmaxazria in los angeles as an assistant designer . she then went on to complete a master class at the miami international university and attended a global fashion field study in china where she was chosen as one of only 20 international students to study in paris , france at the é cole duperr é , é cole sup é rieure des arts appliqu é s . having achieved a well-rounded mix of formal design education and industry experience , she decided to pursue her childhood dream of starting her own label. in january 2011 , she collaborated with ashlee brooks patton to launch contemporary womenswear line varela + brooks which was named runner-up at the fifth annual texas ’ next top designer competition and both were finalists to compete in the nbc “ fashion star ” reality television series. isabel has created the wardrobes for several movies and even became a semi-finalist on project runway season 8 . in 2012 , isabel varela will be focusing on launching her independent label izavel. she was honored the fairmont dallas ’ inaugural designer-in-residence three month tenure where she will educate students and the community about the fashion industry while working at the glass-front design studio and living in the hotel . izavel creates sleek modern shapes to give an unexpected twist to classic , tailored styles. handcrafted from start to finish with luxurious fabric , each piece will allow you to convey individuality , confidence and style that is truly one of a kind. inspired by everything from architecture and music to everyday objects , izavel creates fashion-forward details with stark asymmetric silhouettes which work together to bring a unique twist to each of her designs.yet effective style of work . www.izavelstudio.com want to be featured on the aod site ? submit your portfolio here . copyright © 2002-2013 area of design. all rights reserved . aod logo kit • be featured • be a sponsor • site submission • submit news • submit resource • suggestions • privacy • terms start of statcounter code end of statcounter code
