atari + + atari 8 bit emulator about news manual downloads about the atari + + emulator the atari + + emulator is a unix based emulator of the atari eight bit computers , namely the atari 400 and 800 , the atari 400xl , 800xl and 130xe , and the atari 5200 game console. the emulator is auto-configurable and will compile on a variety of systems ( linux , solaris , irix ) . its emulation features are stunning : cycle precise emulation ; this includes correct emulation of horizontal kernels and programs that modify chip registers within a horizontal line. in a less technical language , software making use of advanced displaying techniques will be emulated correctly . emulation of an advanced 1050 disk drive including single , double and enhanced density. the emulator not only understands .atr and .xfd files , but comes with a mini-boot loader that allows you to boot from binary load files ( .exe and .com ) . emulation of fcd internals , supporting non-standard track layouts . supports .gz compressed images , and .dcm disk images. no additional tools required to load these disks . precise emulation of antic and gtia graphics , including undocumented scrolling features , undocumented gtia player/missile priorities and collision detection , and some other less known gtia features. color artifacting is also available . precise emulaton of pokey sound , including " software speech " , high-pass filters and pokey hardware timer interrupts. an emulation of the console speaker is also included . precise emulation of the pokey sio ( serial transfer ) protocol , including the atari " sound effects " on disk loading and some lesser known influences of serial transfer on the sound subsystem . pokey stereo hack ( " gumby " ) included in the emulation . emulates graphics output either thru x11 , or the sdl library , including a screen snapshot feature , saving images as pgm , bmp or png . sound output is either emulated by the open sound system ( oss ) , the alsa system , the sdl library , or by recording the sound samples into a wav file in cd quality . cylce-precise 6502 emulation , including " extra-instructions " that are not documented in the 6502-manual , and also including all known hardware-bugs of the 6502 . cylce-precise emulation of pokey timer and interrupts . printer emulation thru standard lpr printer user interface . flicker-fixer option for games that toggle palettes fast for more colors . emulation of color artifacts due to pal color subsampling optional de-blocking filter for magnified output built-in os emulation joystick , paddle and lightpen emulation by keyboard or mouse , or by standard analogue pc joysticks. a special home-made interface allows the connection of atari digital joysticks by an additional joystick driver. hence , you 'll be able to play all your old games even with your digital joysticks . includes emulation of the pokey pot reading mechanism . saves and loads machine states to save games in the middle of the game play , and allows to resume from that point later on . includes emulation of a variety of cartridge types , including 5200 games cartridges and oss supercarts . effective emulation of 800xl/xe and cartridge bank-switching mechanisms . emulation of the atari 850 interface box by the serial port of the host computer , including a full 850 driver " in rom " . interfaces to " hias ' " atarisio driver , allowing you to connect real atari hardware to the pc . includes a dos 2.xx compatible interface to the filing system of the emulator . emulation of the 1010 tape recorder . includes a self-contained operating system and system disk . easy to use graphical user front-end for simple setup and configuration , includes saving and loading of ( human-readable ) configuration files. the user front-end also allows to setup details like the player/missile collision setup to build " game-trainers " on demand . includes a built-in monitor allowing experts to debug atari software easily . and the best : it is free . website © 2013. all rights reserved .
