home atari800macx sio2osx downloads links contact x atari800macx now supports synchronized sound , a graphical debugger , vapi and pro images , copy and paste from the emulator , configuration files , and a new hard disk emulation scheme . there have been other enhancments and bug fixes as well , see below . atari800macx has required many hours of work in development , and is now donationware . if you enjoy it , please donate through this link . this is the home page of the macintosh os x port of david firth 's fantastic atari 800 emulator. i have ported the sdl version of the atrari800 emulator to mac os x , and added a full native cocoa interface , including preferences , menus , file associations , help and more. it does not require libsdl to be installed separately , but includes it within the application package. it does however require rom image files from the original atari systems , which are not included here. special thanks go to jacek poplawski for writing the general sdl port , and the entire libsdl team that has made this port possible. ( as well as to the whole atari800 team for their invaluable support and suggestions. please visit their website at http : //atari800.sourceforge.net for full info on their emulator core. ) many thanks to daniel noguerol for his hard work on the original and ported versions of the r : driver. also thanks to al yarusso at atariage for mirroring the binary and source , and macupdate for mirroring the binary . and of course dan and the rest of you who have sent in invaluable bug and testing reports . why did i write another atari emulator for the mac ? derek ledbetter has a good port of atari800 for os9 and carbon on os x. however , i really wanted an emulator that could keep up with all of the features of the atari800 emulator , including full cartridge and machine support , hard drives , etc. in addition , i wanted a full screen mode in addition to the windowed mode of derek 's port . also , derek 's port is dependent on code warrior ™ , and i wanted an emulator that could be built with apple 's great free tools provided with macos x. project builder does not build carbon executables for use on os 9 , so therefore there is n't an os9 version . news : 12-29-2011 version 4.6.0 released . 08-17-2011 version 4.5.0 released . 05-19-2011 version 4.4.0 released . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.6.0 ) : note , this may be the last release supporting ppc , 10.4 , and possibly 10.5. if you have any bugs you need fixed or new features you feel you have to have for these older versions , please email me and i will consider them . bugs fixed : fixed issues with arrow keys in full screen menu and some of the atari arrow key mappings . fixed issues with assigning tab , return , and delete as joystick keys when using international key mappings . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.5.0 ) : features added/changed : added ability to change sound volume in the application through the sound menu or key combos bugs fixed : fixed issues with some tab and esc not being able to be entered in the emulator as well as some international key sequences . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.4.0 ) : features added/changed : added support for 512 byte sector spartados x atr disk images . bugs fixed : fixed bug where erroneously long frame sleeps caused emulator to lock up . fixed issue with window miniaturization buttons . fixed issues with some special characters not being able to be entered in the emulator as well as some international key sequences . fixed issue with super/subscript modes in epson printer emulation . fixed issue with r : network emulation and incoming connections , bbs software will now work . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.3.0 ) : features added/changed : added new synchronized sound support , which increases sound accuracy , removes noise from some games , and allows things such as the woofwoof demo to work which did not work in older versions. the hi-fi audio is not selected all the time , but the user is now able to selected between 16 bit and 8 bit sound , with 16 being the default on intel machines , and only 8 bit sound is available on ppc machines . now being built with snow leopard , therfore osx 10.3.9 is no longer supported . bugs fixed : fixed issue spartados x piggyback cartridges which was introduced in version 4.0 ffixed issue with cmd-option shortcuts for window resizing , etc . fadded fix from atari800 core emulator for mouse emulation handling . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.2.0 ) : features added/changed : added a graphical debugger. for a full list of debugger features see the manual or built in help . bugs fixed : fixed issue with cmd-key menu shortcuts when using international keyboard mapping . reverted to atari800 cvs code for pro disk image handling , as it handles some images mine would not . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.1.0 ) : features added/changed : added ability to change definition of macintosh arrow keys between one in ctrl + atari arrow keys , atari arrow keys only , or f1-f4 function keys . bugs fixed : fixed issue with erroneous capslock keystrokes being signaled to emulator . correct handling of shift-ctrl-0 through shift-ctrl-9 and other shift-ctrl keystrokes by emulator . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.0.1 ) : bugs fixed : fixed monitor history command . new features/bug fixes ( in version 4.0.0 ) : features added/changed : added support of vapi copy-protected disk images. this does not yet enable all images , but perhaps 90 % . if the vapi dll source is ever released , this number may be increased. the current images from www.atarimania.com which are known not to work are : * alternate reality : the city * ankh * attack at ep cyg 4 * ballblazer activision ( uk ) * jenny of the prairie * mercenary - escape from targ _ novagen software * mr. do ! * music studio ( the ) * promoteur * rescue on fractalus ! _ activision ( uk ) * spy vs spy * targets - a number game added new d : patch , which provides an alternative to the h : hard drive emualtion. this sets up d5 : -d8 : to access hard drive directories one and two , with or without line feed translation. this allows the macintosh hard drive direcories to be accessed by programs which do not recognize the h : device fully , such as mydos and action ! . added multiple preference configurations , allowing you to set up multiple machine configurations , and load them by opening a .a8c file . added ability to paste text from the macintosh to the atari. the pasted text is input as keystrokes to the emulator , and should be usable in most programs . added ability to copy text from the atari to the macintosh. the copied text can be selected using select all , or by using the mouse to define a selection rectangle on the screen. it works in normal video or xep80 modes , but is not available in full screen mode , or if the mouse is being used for mouse controller emulation . added emulation of atari 1200xl function keys. you can press the atari f1 by pressing option-f1 in the emulator , along with optionally shift and or control. f2-f4 work the same way . added alternatives for the atari keys mapped to the macintosh insert/delete/home/end/pageup/pagedown keys as those keys are not present on some new macintosh keyboards . added ability to use multiple analog joysticks on the same gamepad as multiple atari joysticks . added the following features from version 2.1 of atari800 core emulator * added axlon and mosaic ram expansions for atari 400/800 * added emulation of mio and black box * added support of .pro copy-protected disk images * implemented tape loading with variable bitrates * implemented cassette writing via hardware registers * added emulation of cx85 numeric keyboard * r : device can be serial-only or network-only ( selectable ) bugs fixed fixed caps lock with international key mapping on . fixed a bug with turning joystick emulation on and off which was causing a stuck joystick . fixed a bug where one analog joystick was not selectable on gamepad 2 . the following fixes were added from version 2.10 of atari800 : * fix for " ilusia " demo * better gtia bug mode emulation * fixed pokey registers : allpot , irqen and stimer * various atari5200 fixes * fixed atrax cartridge bank switching * major source code cleanup , compiles with -pedantic etc . new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.9.1 ) : bugs fixed : fixed state save with xep80. state save was inadvertantly left out of the 3.9.0 xep80 source . new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.9.0 ) : bugs fixed : fixed issue with 8mbit flash cartridge images not working . fixed issue with xep80 emulation not working with the new spartados cartrdiges fixed issue when joystick emulation was turned off with control menu , joystick trigger was always reported as pressed . fixed issue with right keyboard meta keys not being recognized on newer macs. this replaces the bad fix which was issued with version 3.8.0 other changes : macosx 10.2 is no longer supported , as i am now using 10.5 and xcode 3.1 , and they no longer support building for 10.2 new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.8.1 ) : bugs fixed : fixed keyboard issue which was introduced in 3.8.0 in attempt to fix another bug . bad fix has been removed to be redone at a later date . fixed issue with built in help , some images were not displaying . new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.8.0 ) : features added/changed : added emulation of the xep80 80 column display adapater . bugs fixed : fixed issue with monitor not displaying certain ascii characters correctly in memory dumps . fixed issue with right keyboard meta keys not being recognized on newer macs . new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.7.0 ) : features added/changed : added option to not mute sound when emulator is not the active program . added the ability to swap disks between any two drives by holding the option key while dragging a disk from one drive to another . added the ability to swap two disks from the drive management panel , and added keyboard shortcuts to the drive managment panel . see help pages for operaton . updated to version 1.2.12 of libsdl. see joystick calbration bug fixed below . bugs fixed : fixed issue with joystick calibration by upgrading libsdl library. it is no longer necessary to move the joysticks in all cardinal directions before use to have them work correctly . fixed issue with stero sound option not being saved . fixed issue with main windows not having focus when starting from the command line . fixed working directory issue when starting from the command line . fixed bug with frame skip preference not being displayed correctly . fixed bug with real time clock emulation , which has not been working in last several versions . new features ( in version 3.6.0 ) : features added/changed : added support for a second cartridge ( piggyback ) when the first cartridge is a spartados x cartridge . new features/bug fixes ( in version 3.5.0 ) : features added/changed : added support for the new spartdos x 128k cartridge . added menu to the control menu to allow the user to control the artifacting mode . allow gamepads with 3 joysticks of the same type to be used ( gravis eliminator aftershock is an example ) . bugs fixed : fixed issue with " new " artifacting in certain games , such as scram . fixed issue where artifacting mode was not taking effect until program was restarted ( after being set in media status window ) . features ( version 0.2.1 and up ) : full functionality of atari800 release 1.3.2 sdl version , including full screen and joystick support . addition of other atari800 core features not supported by sdl version . full macintosh os x cocoa interface , including preferences , menus , file associations , help and more . libsdl included in application package . double/triple/quadruple size mode , for efficient scaling in windowed modes . full screen mode . to many others to mention here , see online help in emulator for full documentation. . planned enhancements : feature enhancements and new features per user suggestions. please let me know what you 'd like to see . download download page known bugs : known bug page hosted by atariage.com site created by atrenne software and web design
