welcome to the afterimage gallery website. we are located in dallas , texas and are one of the oldest art galleries in the world devoted to photography. this is our 43rd year of operation. we provide a large variety of photography at a wide range of prices. contact walter w. nelson the black place : two seasons the black place , new mexico : untitled # 66b by walter w. nelson a separate collection an interesting variety of all kinds of prints at all kinds of prices our photographers prints of particular interest site updates earlier shows essential links full site contents for the last few decades , photography has been discovered by many collectors , museums and corporations. it 's an art medium available at many price levels and represents an outstanding art investment. for those new to this site , the left-hand picture above connects you with photographers who we mostly directly represent ( many of these prints are not in the gallery but can be ordered ) . the right-hand link goes to a page of prints that are more difficult to find , often by photographers who have passed on ( some of these prints may have sold and not yet taken off the page ) . also , we are one of the few photographic gallery sites that publishes prices , with a few exceptions and subject to change. please let us know of any questions or concerns via phone ( 214-871-9140 ) or email . begin mailchimp signup form collectors ' mailing list sign up real people should not fill this in and expect good things - do not remove this or risk form bot signups end mc_embed_signup news another informal video , this time of our walter w. nelson show . new page featuring some great imagery from magnum photos. so far a few ren é burri and bruce davidson photographs are there . an informal video i made of our gallery show area , featuring the james evans show . new amazing documentary work from the talented garcia brothers in cuba . visit us on facebook www.facebook.com/afterimagegallery ! 45 minute interview at lensflare35.com with afterimage gallery 's owner : long but pretty good . search our site afterimage gallery the quadrangle # 141 2800 routh street dallas , tx 75201 phone : ( 214 ) 871-9140 toll free : ( 877 ) 868-5462 fax : ( 801 ) 858-5282 hours : 10 : 00 a.m. to 5 : 30 p.m. , monday-saturday e-mail us at images @ afterimagegallery.com ben breard , owner/director inquiring photographers visit here . footnote : " all men are mortal. socrates was mortal. therefore , all men are socrates. " woody allen
