punched cards by douglas w. jones t he u niversity of i owa department of computer science html public " -//w3c//dtd html 4.01 transitional//en " punched cards were , in the 1960 's the universal symbol of computing , and even in the 1930 's , they were a symbol of modernity. today , cards are all but forgotten , surviving in a few applicatons such as turnpike toll receipts and automatic voting systems . historical information an illustrated technical history all about chad ? a collection of cards codes used on punched cards there were multiple mappings between the 12 holes of one card column and the character sets of various machines and keypunches . punched card emulation the following software is available to encourage the development of museum quality emulators for antique computing and punched-card tabulating equipment : an ascii to card-deck filter a card-deck to ascii filter a tool to concatenate emulated card-decks these are supported by a shared translation table that includes some of the many mappings between ascii and hole patterns punched on cards . the file format used by these programs is available , and i hope that emulators for historical computer architectures will support interchangable punched card i/o using this format and that a suite of emulated punched card data processing machines will be developed . paul mattes has created an 026 keypunch emulator that supports this format and runs under x11 on linux and some other unix compatible systems ! see x026 for a demo and an animated gif of the user interface . other punched card resources the ibm punched card from ibm 's 100 icons of progress , a well-done bit of self promotion from the company that led in the development of punched-card based data processing . the hollerith tabulating machine web pages from a chronological history of computing at columbia university . punched card equipment from the ieee global history network has a good discussion of herman hollerith 's career and his inventions . everything about punched cards from the museum waalsdorp in holland , with illustrations of punched card machinery . do not fold , spindle or mutilate " : a cultural history of the punch card by steven lubar of the smithsonian institution ( now at brown university ) . ibm punch card systems in the u.s. army with good illustrations of pre-computer card processing equipment . a brief illustrated personal history vintage tech can convert your punched cards to modern data formats . cardamation was the last place to rent or buy punched-card data processing equipment. the owner , robert g. swartz died on dec. 16 , 2011 , and it appears that cardamation is no longer . u.s. card corporation , formerly of tiffin , ohio , has closed its doors , as of early 2005 , after a run of 32 years in the punched-card business . last modified : tuesday , 07-aug-2012 17 : 04 : 51 cdt .
