" who controls the past commands the future. who commands the future conquers the past. " - george orwell this collection of materials relating to the history of computing is provided courtesy of the department of computer science at virginia tech , and is sponsored in part by a grant from the national science foundation ( cda-9312611 ) . this site has been chosen by " edu-activ " , an educational resource site based in germany. for other awards click here . the computer museum is moving into its new home , a 120,000 square foot facility in the heart of silicon valley the computer history museum 's new home is a two-story , 119,000 square foot architecturally distinctive structure , designed and developed in 1994. it is located on 7.5 acres of land in the heart of silicon valley at the intersection of highways 101 and 85. this highly visible location is convenient to both san francisco and san jose. the first conference on history of nordic computing : hinc 1 organized by ifip working group 9.7 in cooperation with ifip tc3 will be held : june 16 - 18 , 2003 the norwegian university of science and technology ( ntnu ) , trondheim , norway the call for papers closes 1 november 2002. a new addition to our site is the " take-off " on the abc show " who wants to be a millionaire ? " in a history quiz. try your knowledge of the history of computing here . index introduction news conferences and meetings courses overviews of the history of computing people and pioneers companies and corporations machines ( including a special section on cryptography ) programming languages calculators computer history organizations and museums computing at institutions archives and collections publications networks and internet on-line emulators of computers and computing systems miscellaneous women in ( the ) computing history introduction this www page is the initiation of a collection of materials related to the history of computing as collected and written by j. a. n. lee , until 1995 editor-in-chief of the ieee annals of the history of computing , past chair of the ieee computer society history of computing committee and current chair of the ifip working group 9.7 ( history of computing ) . it was original constructed as part of the course materials for the " professionalism in computing " class at virginia tech , and in particular as a set of notes and amplification of the materials in the video " the machine that changed the world " , developed and distributed by wgbh ( pbs ) and the british broadcasting company ( bbc ) . we are hoping to expand the coverage of the video by providing stills for each of the topics in the notes. the best way to access items on this page is through your browser 's find/search facility. an alternative video series is " the triumph of the nerds " that chronicles the development of the pc , starting in the mid-1970s. information about the series is available from pbs and summaries are posted as part of a course on m.i.s. organizations and technology at northern illinois university. a collection of materials intended to describe the history of computing to those interested in the 50th anniversary of computing in 1996 was used by students at virginia tech to develop a virtual museum of computing that you may find very interesting. this list includes several pointers to lists which we have not been able to verify fully. we are very aware that some of these lists contain errors of both fact and date and thus recommend that persons who use them recognize that they are foremost secondary , if not tertiary sources , and thus should be independently verified. the materials included here are intended to assist scholars and students in their work , but the use of the materials for other publications ( other than links from other pages ) requires you to get the appropriate copyright clearance. if you wish to use these materials please send me e-mail during the fall semester 1996 and spring semester 1997 , several students have chosen to partially fulfill the requirements of our " professionalism " class by adding additional background material in support of the video " the machine that changed the world " notes. when you find their work , it would be nice if you would drop them a note to appreciate their work. if there are other classes that have had a similar assignment and would like to contribute their materials please let me have a url as soon as possible. ultimately i would like to download the material to this site to help preserve the information since student sites tend to disappear frequently. thus please put a copyright notice on the page , and a note that permission has been granted to transfer it to virginia tech. your comments , thoughts , and possibly contributions , should be sent to me j.a.n. lee . links to other pages are particularly welcome. several contributors have suggested that i add thumbnails for the portraits and figures. regrettably this page has grown so large that it takes a long time for people to download. if i get time , i will try to separate the page into separate pages for each of the topics in the index and then add thumbnails. enjoy the page. throughout 1996 i wrote a monthly column for ieee computer entitled " looking.back " . while each of the columns was edited for length ( and occasionally for content ) and the figures removed , the original submissions are now available , and should be relevent for many years to come ! january february march april may june july august september october november e december conferences and meetings the first conference on history of nordic computing : hinc 1 software design and management ( germany ) conference 2001 was on the pioneers of software. held in bonn on 28 and 29 june 2001 , the program was filled with the " stars " of programming languages , software engineering , and structured programming. their web site is a gemstone of videos and graphics worth visiting ! vintage computer festival if you know of a meeting that needs to be advertised send me an e-mail message . interesting items ( without enough companions to make a category ) the origin of the word daemon a preliminary posting of a bibliography on on-line character recognition ( a.k.a. dynamic character recognition , a.k.a. pen computing ) by jean renard ward. history of computing curriculum - a proposal. picture of the original bug ( now in the smithsonian institute ) bug an interesting story of the qwerty keyboard , its origins and myths. a computer in a buddhist temple -- a press release photograph from the wgbh press kit related to video series questions and answers from the 1994 acm/computer museum computer bowl computerbowl for a trivia quiz relating to the history of computing - click here ! the computer was named the machine of the year in 1982 by time magazine. the rationale for this selection has been extracted from the time inc. pages. the machine that changed the world -- notes on the wgbh/pbs television series tmtctw ; notes were recently added for episodes 4 and 5 , courtesy of osman balci ( virginia tech ) and links to " side bars " for the first three episodes were expanded. if you can add links to other places of interest that would help students get an expanded understanding of the topics in this video series , send me e-mail . talking machines -- a press release photograph from the wgbh press kit related to video series a special page by amdahl corporation commemorates the 25th anniversary of unix and includes several links to historic information : http : //www.amdahl.com/internet/events/unix25.html humor is a dangerous thing when one is dealing with history since it often distorts the facts and creates myths that outlive the facts. this set of quotations has circulated around newsgroups long enough that it is becoming part of history itself ! accept with a grain of salt. s witch on witch-request @ niestu.com women in ( the ) computing history in keeping with the tradition of documenting women 's history through oral histories , the women in ( the ) computing history mailing list hopes to augment traditional resources of women 's history and histories of computing by being a repository for women 's own stories throughout the history of computing. all women in computing , too , not just those of us formally schooled in the computing sciences. the list is open and will be unmoderated so long as the signal rate remains high. if traffic warrants , a digest option will be made available , but does not currently exist. we would like to gate this list to other networks. contact the list owner/maintainer , donna. , at donna.s @ niestu.com to work out gating arrangements. please do not gate without permission from the maintainer first. to subscribe to women in ( the ) computing history , send the following command to witch-request @ niestu.com in the subject of e-mail : subscribe to unsubscribe from women in ( the ) computing history , send the following command to witch-request @ niestu.com in the subject of e-mail : unsubscribe to receive help using smartlist 's archive server , send the following command to witch-request @ niestu.com in the subject of e-mail : archive help owner : donna donna.s @ niestu.com use this information at your own risk. for more information and disclaimer send e-mail to listserv @ listserv.nodak.edu with the command info new-list in the body. awards this site has been chosen by " edu-activ " , an educational resource site based in germany. selected by l ä nkskafferiet ( the link larder ) , the swedish school net , 15 december 2000. featured on homeworkspot.com , september 2000. a look smart award in january 1997 a best of the web award in november 1997 the favorite site of the tech museum of innovation in may 1998. tech 10 focuses on high technology for a middle school and above audience. the links 2 go key resource award in july 1998. cyberteddy 's top 500 website award , in fall 1999. last updated 2002/12/06 © j.a.n. lee , 1995-2002.
