random number generators , random selection software and random sampling utilities by random bots . programs for the pc ( windows 95 , 98 , nt , me , 2000 , xp ) prices check our prices . simple a simple random number generator. generate random numbers from a single range [ low,high ] . medusa random sampling & research randomization software. generate random samples , random assignments and random orders. create multiple sample sets in a single request . minotaur a random number generator for creating multiple sample sets from a single range. use it to generate random sequences of numeric permutations. generate a fixed or variable number of blank data items per set - the position of each blank item is determined at random . vortex a fixed format random data generator : random passwords , random phone numbers , random user ids. use it to generate formatted random numbers : integer and floating point. auditor a random check number auditor and random number generator. generate random samples from multiple numeric ranges. random sample from non-numeric data and numeric ( multiple ranges ) and random date scheduling. it can also be used as random selection software for alcohol and drug testing . valuepack medusa , minotaur , simple and vortex for one low price . lottobots generate lottery style random numbers - request sets of random numbers from two ranges . looking for random drug testing software ? for comprehensive random selection and data management resources for random alcohol and drug testing software visit randomware.com auditor - random samples from numeric ( multiple ranges ) and non-numeric data . the auditor is random sample software for check number auditing and random selection from multiple numeric ranges , non-numeric and date formats . enter m ultiple numeric ranges or non-numeric data in a spreadsheet with 25 rows of data displayed at a time ( unlimited ) . medusa - general random sampling & research randomization software generate random samples , random assignments and random orders. control random sample distribution to multiple conditions for research projects . create multiple sample sets in a single request. save and append results to text files. display and print the random samples. output data in multiple formats : horizontal or vertical in multiple columns ( one sample set per column ) . simple - a simple random number generator . generate a single set of random numbers from a range [ low , high ] . exclude digits. save and append results to text files. display and print the random sample in the order generated or sorted numerically . minotaur - generate multiple sets of random numbers from a numeric range . generate multiple sample sets of random numbers from a range [ low , high ] . prevents duplicate sample sets. save and append results to text files. display and print the random samples. generate large sample sets directly to text files. use it to generate sequences of numeric permutations . generate a fixed or variable number of blank data items per set. the position of each blank item is determined at random. specify a word that displays where the blank data items appear . vortex - random passwords , phone numbers , ids : a random data generator . create random passwords , phone numbers , ids. vortex is a random number generator for integers and floating point numerics . vortex generates random data samples of any size - no limits. includes print and save resources. create random alpha-numeric or all numeric text strings - fixed or variable length . lottobots - a lottery style random number generator . lottobots is a lottery style random number generator. generate random number sets from two input ranges simultaneously. use lottobots for most of the world 's lottery games : powerballs , super lottos , fantasy five , pick 3 , pick 4 , etc . value pack - minotaur , medusa , simple , vortex purchase all four software utilities for one low price . programs for windows ( 95 , 98 , nt , me , 2000 , xp and beyond . . . ) randombots , randomware ( s ) , erandomware , publishpoint are affiliated with bitbots.com & publishpoint.com for custom software application development visit : kleinmobius.com
