- home - contact - impressum about us generators links literature software tests this server is maintained by a team of mathematicians and computer scientists led by peter hellekalek at the department of mathematics of the university of salzburg . we present results and links for this fundamental tool in stochastic simulation and in applied cryptography , some of them due to our own research in this field. enjoy the data and allow for necessary incompleteness and subjectivity . an unmoderated collection of network-resouces on random number generators is located on this server as part of the www virtual library . a short tour of the information we offer : about us on this page , we provide information on our team . generators we discuss different types of random number generators and some of their properties . links we provide rather extensive links to people , software and related sites . literature on this page , you will find references to articles and books that we consider helpful and worth reading . software if you need code for random number generation , even for nonuniform distributions : this is your page ! tests all random number generators have their weak points. we discuss the issue of empirical ( statistical ) testing of rngs and provide results as well as links . research supported by and jubil ä umsfond der oenb news 01/06/2014 : hn70 workshop on the occasion of harald niederreiter 's 70th birthday : applications of algebra and number theory to be held at the johann radon institute for computational and applied mathematics ( ricam ) june 23-27 , 2014 . 10/06/2014 : random and pseudo-random melvyn bragg and his guests discuss randomness and pseudorandomness at bbc4 . 01/06/2014 : mcqmc 2014 the 11th international conference on monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods took place in leuven , belgium. you will find a wealth of information at the conference website . 07/07/2011 : fq10 -ghent conference harald niederreiter 's laudatio for gary mullen advertisements home | contact | impressum | about us | generators | links | literature | software | tests
