the homepage of nearest neighbors and similarity search maintained by yury lifshits update : this page is frozen. please visit the successor page by arnoldo muller intro tutorial bibliography researchers links open problems yury 's work on nn to preprocess a database of n objects so that given a query object , one can effectively determine its nearest neighbors in database the purpose of this page is to collect links , people , ideas , keywords , papers , slides , code and data sets on nearest neighbors in a single place . name of the problem : nearest neighbors , k nearest neighbors ( knn , k-nn ) , nearset neighbor search , proximity search , similarity search , approximate nearest neighbors ( ann ) , range queries , maximal intersection queries , post-office problem , partial match , best match file searching , best match retrieval , sequence nearest neighbors ( snn ) . solution concepts : locality-sensitive hashing ( lsh ) , low-distortion embeddings , k-d trees , kd-trees , metric trees , m-trees , r * -trees , vp-trees , vantage point trees , vantage point forest , multi-vantage point tree , bisector trees , orchard 's algorithm , random projections , fixed queries tree , voronoi tree , bbd-tree , min-wise independent permutations , burkhard-keller tree , generalized hyperplane tree , geometric near-neighbor access tree ( gnat ) , approximating eliminating search algorithm ( aesa ) , inverted index , spatial approximation tree ( sat ) . applications : k-nearest neighbor classification algorithm , image similarity identification , audio similarity identification , fingerprint search , audio/video compression ( mpeg ) , optical character recognition , coding theory , function approximation , recommendation systems , near-duplicate detection , targeting on-line ads , distributional similarity computation , spelling correction , nearest neighbor interpolation . related keywords : all-nearest-neighbors problem , indexing methods , spatial index , voronoi diagram , spatial access methods ( sam ) , multidimensional access methods , closest pair , indexing algorithm , intrinsic dimension , johnson-lindenstrauss lemma , johnson-lindenstrauss transform , large-scale algorithms , scalability , dimensionality reduction , high dimensions , curse of dimensionality , high-dimensional spaces , cell probe model , metric spaces , euclidean space , brunch-and-bound search , divide and conquer , massive data sets , metric embeddings , cell probe complexity , spatial data structures , euclidean k-median problem , point sampling . call for promotion and feedback find a mistake ? send me email to yury @ yury.name something is missed ? give me a suggestion : yury @ yury.name have an open problem ? publish it on this page ! copyrights are reserved to you . like it ? put a hyperlink on your page ! thanks for visiting this page ! © 2004-2008 yury lifshits . hosted in steklov institute of mathematics at st.petersburg . liveinternet counter /liveinternet
