inferring hierarchies from sequences simple c + + full c + + java javascript object pascal description publication abcabdabcabd pease porridge genesis green eggs & ham sequitur is a method for inferring compositional hierarchies from strings. it detects repetition and factors it out of the string by forming rules in a grammar. the rules can be composed of non-terminals , giving rise to a hierarchy. it is useful for recognizing lexical structure in strings , and excels at very long sequences . craig nevill-manning , google ian witten , university of waikato , new zealand pease porridge hot , pease porridge cold , pease porridge in the pot , nine days old . some like it hot , some like it cold , some like it in the pot , nine days old . in the beginning , god created the heavens and the earth . and the earth was without form , and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. and the spirit of god moved upon the face of the waters . and god said , let there be light : and there was light . and god saw the light , that it was good : and god divided the light from the darkness . and god called the light day , and the darkness he called night. and the evening and the morning were the first day . and god said , let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters , and let it divide the waters from the waters . and god made the firmament , and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament : and it was so . and god called the firmament heaven. and the evening and the morning were the second day . and god said , let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place , and let the dry land appear : and it was so . and god called the dry land earth ; and the gathering together of the waters called he seas : and god saw that it was good . and god said , let the earth bring forth grass , the herb yielding seed , and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind , whose seed is in itself , upon the earth : and it was so . and the earth brought forth grass , and herb yielding seed after his kind , and the tree yielding fruit , whose seed was in itself , after his kind : and god saw that it was good . and the evening and the morning were the third day . and god said , let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days , and years : and let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth : and it was so . and god made two great lights ; the greater light to rule the day , and the lesser light to rule the night : he made the stars also . and god set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth , and to rule over the day and over the night , and to divide the light from the darkness : and god saw that it was good . and the evening and the morning were the fourth day . and god said , let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life , and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven . and god created great whales , and every living creature that moveth , which the waters brought forth abundantly , after their kind , and every winged fowl after his kind : and god saw that it was good . i am sam i am sam sam i am that sam-i-am that sam-i-am ! i do not like that sam-i-am do you like green eggs and ham i do not like them , sam-i-am . i do not like green eggs and ham . would you like them here or there ? i would not like them here or there . i would not like them anywhere . i do not like green eggs and ham . i do not like them , sam-i-am would you like them in a house ? would you like them with a mouse ? i do not like them in a house . i do not like them with a mouse . i do not like them here or there . i do not like them anywhere . i do not like green eggs and ham . i do not like them , sam-i-am . would you eat them in a box ? would you eat them with a fox ? not in a box . not with a fox . not in a house . not with a mouse . i would not eat them here or there . i would not eat them anywhere . i would not eat green eggs and ham . i do not like them , sam-i-am . would you ? could you ? in a car ? eat them ! eat them ! here they are . i woould not , could not , in a car you may like them . you will see . you may like them in a tree ? d not in a tree . i would not , could not in a tree . not in a car ! you let me be . i do not like them in a box . i do not like them with a fox i do not like them in a house i do mot like them with a mouse i do not like them here or there . i do not like them anywhere . i do not like green eggs and ham . i do not like them , sam-i-am . a train ! a train ! a train ! a train ! could you , would you on a train ? not on a train ! not in a tree ! not in a car ! sam ! let me be ! i would not , could not , in a box . i could not , would not , with a fox . i will not eat them with a mouse i will not eat them in a house . i will not eat them here or there . i will not eat them anywhere . i do not like them , sam-i-am . say ! in the dark ? here in the dark ! would you , could you , in the dark ? i would not , could not , in the dark . would you , could you , in the rain ? i would not , could not , in the rain . not in the dark. not on a train , not in a car , not in a tree . i do not like them , sam , you see . not in a house. not in a box . not with a mouse. not with a fox . i will not eat them here or there . i do not like them anywhere ! you do not like green eggs and ham ? i do not like them , sam-i-am . could you , would you , with a goat ? i would not , could not . with a goat ! would you , could you , on a boat ? i could not , would not , on a boat . i will not , will not , with a goat . i will not eat them in the rain . i will not eat them on a train . not in the dark ! not in a tree ! not in a car ! you let me be ! i do not like them in a box . i do not like them with a fox . i will not eat them in a house . i do not like them with a mouse . i do not like them here or there . i do not like them anywhere ! i do not like green egss and ham ! i do not like them , sam-i-am . you do not like them . so you say . try them ! try them ! and you may . try them and you may i say . sam ! if you will let me be , i will try them . you will see . say ! i like green eggs and ham ! i do ! ! i like them , sam-i-am ! and i would eat them in a boat ! and i would eat them with a goat.. . and i will eat them in the rain . and in the dark. and on a train . and in a car. and in a tree . they are so goodm so goodm you see ! so i will eat them in a box . and i will eat them with a fox . and i will eat them in a house . and i will eat them with a mouse . and i will eat them here and there . say ! i will eat them anhywhere ! i do so like green eggs and ham ! thank you ! thank you , sam-i-am
