educational fun with the beeb # include virtual = " beeblinks.html " introduction hi. i 'm jo. i 'm a child of the eighties who grew up with a bbc model b computer. ( beeb ) ( for anyone who does n't know what i 'm talking about , have a look at the beeb history page ) i spent many hours entertaining myself with games like chuckie egg , elite , mr ee and repton , among many others. i also spent as much time playing educational games as well as the more standard , just for fun games . the beeb became obsolete many years ago ( see beeb history ) but the technology has been kept alive by the fans ( see related sites ) and the games can be played using an emulator ( a program that convinces your modern pc that it is fact an 80 's beeb. ) for more details see playing the games on the pc : emulators i enjoyed the educational games as much as all the rest , so i would like to share them with everyone , so they can have fun on their computer and teach their kids the fundamentals of reading , maths and adventure game play. therefore , this site is aimed at parents who want to teach their children in a fun , and interesting way as this is a wonderful resource for doing just that . i am assuming that you have very little computer knowledge - everything is ( as best i can ) explained very simply , so apologies to those who already know what they are doing . have fun and enjoy the site. ~ jo to have a look at the games available and to download them , go to : games to download an emulator ( for getting the games to run ) go to : playing the games on the pc : emulators for more details about a game , go to games. there are not many of the games at the moment. these will get added over time , sorry if anyone has played any of the games and wishes to write a review ( please do - i do n't want to have to do them all myself ) , get in touch through the contact page and i will send you more details . since most of the " just for fun " games are available to download from other sites , this site only makes educational games available. that is : games where the primary function involves maths , words or another educational subject , or problem solving using any of these . news latest news oct 06 : have a look at : the chuckie egg professional 's resource kit for a bit of light relief from all the educational stuff. if you do n't know chuckie egg , it was a beeb favourite . oct 06 : more games with the help of stairwaytohell.com , i have got a lot more games and am putting them onto the site slowly - keep looking ! end news game game of the month - oct : rescue - an island adventure help the children solve problems and navigate round the island to rescue their uncle . age 7 upwards . go and have a look now end of game # include virtual = " ../ssi-site-links.html "
