acorn atom emulator v1.33 introduction the acorn atom... a small , but very flexible british home computer , released in 1979. with only 12 kb rom and 12 kb ram as a standard , programs could be made pretty easily , as long as they were not too complicated . however , thanks to quite a number of ( ep ) roms and the atom 's flexible structure , the atom could be extended with a wide variety of possibilities. with the acorn atom emulator , it is now possible to run almost all the atom programs on your pc . the emulator the emulator pack is a zip compressed archive , containing the following files : atom.exe - the emulator , atomcom.exe - a utility to transfer data from and to tape or an original atom , atomtape.exe - a utility to retrieve files from tape or an original atom , tapecat.exe - a utility to index original atom tapes , tapedir.exe - a utility that shows the contents of a .tap file , readme.1st - a text file containing the latest information , extrom.tap - a tape image containing a number of extension toolboxes , example.tap - a tape image with a few programs that make use of the new toolboxes , * .doc - documentation . pictures here are two action shots taken from the emulator. it supports sound through the pc-speaker and through a soundblaster or compatible soundcard . the emulator is 100 % assembler , and therefore a 486 dx 40 mhz is already enough to run emulation at original speed , with full screen updates. the picture on the left was taken from plane & tank battle ( programmed 20th - 22nd march 1998 as an excuse for not having to learn about spalling forces on steel fibre reinforced concrete ) . the picture on the right shows a snapshot from the game 'snapper' . version history on first sight nothing is new from version 1.0. however , emulator v1.1 runs in vga mode 12h in stead of 13h , because on some graphic adapters a stable screen could not be achieved. i hope this solves the problem. the following changes have been made : data can be loaded in memory range a000h-afffh. other rom areas can not be overwritten anymore . a bugfix : the and absolute command now also does i/o operations . another bugfix : sometimes files misteriously disappeared and reappeared or could not be imported. simply by resetting the internal error flag ( used for checking i/o operations by turbo pascal ) prior to opening files , this problem now seems to have disappeared . yet another bugfix : loading of the extension rom , specified in the .ini-file did n't work. it should be ok now . hotkeys changed . partial implementation of undocumented ppia port d at b003h . optional disassembly of illegal opcodes in desktop monitor . error in v1.21 fixed : memory 0000h-9fffh ram and c000h-ffffh protected against overwriting by loading . on some computers the monitor would go into stand-by mode as soon as the emulator was started. with help from jens-vagner andersen of denmark , this problem could be solved . * cat command rom-trapped . debugging options expanded. up to four independent " real " breakpoints can be set at a time. special keys ( [ f4 ] , [ f5 ] , [ f6 ] , [ f12 ] , [ shift + f12 ] and [ ctrl + f12 ] ) now can also be used when in debug mode . parallel memory boxes at a000h. up to 8 eproms can be used at the same time. automatic smart-switching included. manual switching through i/o-port at bfffh. it is now no longer possible to overwrite the memory area at a000h-afffh by loading . the fin , fout , get , bget and fget functions and the sget , put , bput , fput and sput statements have been implemented . ms-dos shell available ( temporarily go to ms-dos ) . output to printer implemented . screen capture to .bmp file . mouse support implemented . floppy disk controller 8271 and dos implemented . disk screen in emulator desktop added . maximum number of parallel toolboxes at a000h expanded to sixteen . sound output through pc-speaker improved , 65c02 emulation in stead of 6502 , seven extra 65802 instructions , one of which gives access to the second accumulator , boot from disk image in drive 0 , by pressing [ alt + f12 ] simultaneously , alternative floating point rom with 80x87 co-processor support ( c ) by leendert bijnagte . communication capabilities expanded. the atom 's i/o ports at b400h-b7ffh have now been linked to the pc 's i/o ports 0000h-03ffh , for communication between emulator and other devices and/or programs . downloading the acorn atom emulator is freeware. i have written it mainly for nostalgia reasons and secondly because i think the acorn atom just is a great product ! file : contents : atom.zip ( 14 aug 99 ) atom.exe v1.33 atomcom.exe v1.10 atomtape.exe v1.1 tapecat.exe v1.00 tapedir.exe atom.doc atomcom.doc tapecat.doc readme.1st extrom.tap ( axr1 , p-charme , gags v2.3 , we-rom , a&f utility kit , combox , salfaa v2.6 , mouse-dos box v1.01 , atomic windows v1.0 ) example.tap gags.doc we-rom.doc combox.doc salfaa.doc p-charme.doc atomicw.doc md-box.doc tape1.zip ( 29 jan 98 ) applic1.tap ( axr1 demo , atom music , eliza , shape edit , basic compiler , atom lisp , towers of hanoi , eight queens , kl. beest , fourier ) games1.tap ( attack , babies , backgammon , chess , dodgems , dogfight , fighter , four row , frogger , galaxians , invaders , martians , mastermind , minotaur , missile base , rat trap , robots , snake , snapper , stargate , star trek , zombie ) games2.tap ( break out , co-ord , invade , galgje , ski-run , amazing , bone hunt , asteroid belt , e.t . invaders , solitaire , pontoon , beetle , yahtzee ) games1.doc graham.zip ( 13 dec 97 ) graham.tap ( reversi , super othello , dominoes , snooker , invaders , acorn chess ) adventur.zip ( 28 mar 98 ) adventur.tap ( dungeon , house , intergalactic , atomia akorny , sphinx ) adventur.doc atomia.doc atomia.sol magnus.zip ( 19 feb 98 ) magnus1.tap ( super zombie , masken , star trek + , megalife , condot , eliza , ghost maze , hammurabi , hunt the wampus , katakomb , kong , madlib , scramble ) magnus2.tap ( backgammon , checkmate , dfc700 , diamonds , dragon a , dragon b , dragon c , lunar lander ) magnus1.doc magnus2.doc steve.zip ( 29 jan 98 ) steve.tap ( 747 , asteroids , break out , chess , fruit machine , invader force , labyrinth , nudger , pinball ) steve.doc leendert.zip ( 29 jan 98 ) leendert.tap ( 3d-asteroids , 3d-four in a row , 3d-maze , astrobirds , atomica , awari , ballistics , bandit , blitz , break out , centipede , cupball , cylon attack , dammen , drive , early warning , fractal , hexpawn , hyperdrive , lunar lander , maze game , minefield , omega mission , piet hein , piramide , planetarium , protect , puckman , rally , reversi , schiphol , simon 2 , skiing , space battle , space war , swarm , torpedo run , trap , warlords , wiggle , zeeslag ) leendert.doc friso.zip ( 1 mar 98 ) friso.tap ( business game , constellation , demon dungeon , pilot , pinball , atomcalc , breakout , lemon ) roland.zip ( 6 mar 98 ) gokkast.tap menno.zip ( 14 may 98 ) fruitma.tap menno1.tap ( amoeba , badin , bell hop , brains , city bomber , cluedo , dobbel , golf , gomoku , moon patrol , pengo , p&t-battle , q-bert , shoot out , simon , stock car , stowaway , subhunt ) wordpack.tap ( ed64 ) poker.dsk erik.zip ( 16 jan 01 ) erik.tap erik.txt demodisk.zip ( 14 may 98 ) demodisk.dsk ( intro , atomic windows demo , iconmaker , minesweeper , panic , polecat , space zap , rubik 's cube , painter , boeing 747 , aman , pattern , contour , surface , rotation ) source.zip ( 14 aug 99 ) atom.pas fdc8271.pas atomtape.pas atomcom.pas tapecat.pas tapedir.pas tapedir.c romdisas.zip ( 20 jan 01 ) c000.txt d000.txt f000.txt credits the software collection on this page and the state that the emulator is in at this moment could not have been possible without the following people : leendert bijnagte , who sent me a lot of software and supported me with b -testing. he is also the programmer of the new fp-rom with 80x87 support . graham fowler . friso de haan . henk van der heijden , who gave me an atom , a bbc and an electron . due to his encouraging comments , the atom dos is now supported in the emulator . menno lauwerens , who gave his own home-built atom away to me ( which really put my attention to implementing the parallel toolboxes at a000h ) . it 's a beauty , with two disk drives , a self-made monitor and a transformer , bought from ibm for 25 cents per kilo. the disks contained quite a lot of software , including some nice programs by menno himself , like moon patrol , pengo.. . roland leurs , creater of the atom-in-pc , who sent me " gokkast " , and who gave me lots of feedback . magnus olsson , who gave me feedback and came up with a lot of good ideas . steve webster ( it took me some time , but the tapecat utility has been born ! ) erik agrell , who sent me software , he managed to get from a very old tape. thank you for all your efforts . tim herklots , who sent me the disassemblies , with reverse-engineered comments , of the 3 atom roms software. these may be freely distributed . phil mainwaring , jens-vagner andersen and everybody else , who came up with comments , questions , ideas etc. to help me fix bugs and expand the emulator . links website for atom-in-pc by roland leurs at http : //skyscraper.fortunecity.com/module/208 the anally retentives retro games home at http : //www.arrgh.demon.co.uk/ keith howell 's homepage at http : //www.howell1964.freeserve.co.uk/acorn/atom/atom.htm future about a year ago , i started working on a windows version of the emulator ( looking exactly the same as the dos based one ) . the main reason was that it would be much easier to do the correct timing ( let directx do it all for you ) . the dos one works perfectly on my ( ancient ) pentium 233 mhz. however , on many other computers , with different graphic cards , the timing appeared to be not very good. this project has stranded somewhere in june , but maybe someday i will pick it up. the largest problem is that i ca n't find the time anymore . the second largest problem is the sound emulation. if anybody can give me some hints , please mail me . this page has been created on tuesday 11th november 1997 , last update made on saturday 20th january 2001 by wouter ras .
