the snial homepage . it 's embarrasing. if i were you , i would n't start here . for the moment , i 'll leave the details of my lifestyle to your imagination. if you want to tell me what your imagination delivered send me the details and i 'll consider its merits. at the moment the web page provides download info for macbaby - a macintosh emulator for the world õ s first stored-program computer ; links to the handy board system ( a simple robot ) for which some extra software was written by me and atomac , a rudimentary acorn atom emulator. macbaby handyboard atomac what is macbaby ? macbaby is an emulation of the world 's first stored-program -computer , the baby , built at manchester university , and which ran its first program on june 21 1948. you can learn much more about the baby at the computer 50 web site. macbaby ought to run on any macintosh upwards of a mac plus under system 6.0. it has been tested on a mac iicx , a mac plus under system 6.0 and 7.1 ; a duo280 ( macos 7.5.3 ) a powerbook 5300 ( macos 8.1 ) and an imac dv ( macos 9 ) . the current version of macbaby is version 1.1.3 , which includes a rudimentary assembler and some extra demo programs. download macbaby now ( .hqx format ) this version of macbaby has been known to run on a mac 512ke under system 3.0. ideally , it should run on a mac 128k , i 'd love to see the original stored program computer run on the original mac , but i need you to help me do that. download macbaby512 now ( .hqx format ) there õ s also another macintosh ssem emulator , ssem-mac , which was released in jan 2000. handyboard the handyboard is a single board controller for simple robotics devices. they were developed and supported at mit and are used in a number of institutions , including the university of manchester robotics. i added some software to provide finer control over handyboard motor speeds , the software is called smoothpwm . sometimes people email me about various smoothpwm features , i try to reply , but i 'm not always very efficient. atomac [ picture ] atomac ( pronounced ô at-ommuk õ ) is a fairly rudimentary acorn atom emulator. the acorn atom was an early microcomputer designed by the british company : acorn in 1979. it has the following features : a 1mhz 8-bit 6502 processor ( as used in the apple ii , bbc micro , c64 and others ) . up to 6k vram and 6k ram for basic ( 1k + 1k minimum ) . b/w and 4-colour graphics at resolutions from 64x48 up to 256x192 . a very efficient , but rather strange version of basic ( bcpl influenced ) . floating-point rom extension . a cassette interface . the atom provided the momentum for acorn to build the bbc micro and subsequently , the archimedes which was powered by the widely and increasingly used arm embedded processor. atomac should work at full speed on any powermac using mac os 7.5 or later. it currently supports basic , the fpu , saving and loading ram images ; a full keyboard ; monochrome and colour graphics , but not the cassette interface. it õ s best used for learning atom basic ( which is interesting ) and its integrated assembler. other atom links exist ( for example , arrgh ) , which i 'll add in due time. at the time of writing ( jan 2000 ) , atomac is the only released mac acorn atom emulator i know of. download atomac 0.6.0 now ( .hqx format ) . atomac uses gnu code , so to be fair i ought to release the source code too : download atomac 0.6.0 source ( metrowerks 10 in .hqx format ) . een update ( met een geleend plaatje ) : ( * updated ) . this version of atomac is faster than the previous one ( i improved the cpu emulator ) and has a few more features , some of which even work. i also corrected a couple of bugs. download atomac 0.8.1 now ( .hqx format ) . atomac uses gnu code , so to be fair i ought to release the source code too : download atomac 0.8.1 source ( metrowerks 10 in .hqx format ) .
