fruit shoot 2010 in its 14th annual photo contest , the crfg development fund again offers 12 prizes . win for yourself or for someone else ! • 1st prize ( 1 winner ) : choice of $ 100 , or admissions plus meals for two people at the 2010 festival of fruit • 2nd prize ( 2 winners ) : your choice of a 3-year crfg domestic mail subscription/subscription extension , or a 5-year crfg electronic mail subscription/subscription expansion , or $ 50 , or admission plus meals for one person at the 2010 festival of fruit • 3rd prize ( 4 winners ) : your choice of a 2-year crfg domestic mail subscription/subscription extension , or a 3-year crfg electronic mail subscription/subscription expansion , or $ 25 , or admission ( without meals ) for one person to attend the 2010 festival of fruit • 4th prize ( 5 winners ) : your choice of a 1-year crfg electronic subscription/subscription expansion , or $ 15 , or 50 % discounted admission for one person to attend the 2010 festival of fruit judging guidelines · judges will look for images emphasizing composition , design and color aesthetic images , as opposed to those that merely document or convey information. inclusion of people , hands , rulers or other extraneous objects in photos is undesirable unless they add aesthetic value . · photos of fruit , flowers or foliage attached to a live plant are preferable to photos showing them severed and displayed artificially . · it is essential that the photo subject be in sharp focus . · unfocused images are discouraged except in unusual cases , for a desired effect . · fruits , buds , flowers , roots or any vegetative plant parts are suitable subjects , but all plants or plant parts displayed should be recognizable as a source of produce edible by humans . pictures of plants grown strictly as ornamentals or for aroma , wood , animal feed , soil conservation or general landscaping are inappropriate. cultivated or wild plants , including edible weeds , are acceptable . general rules · anyone may enter . · no purchase is required . · color prints and digital images will be accepted . · all photo prints and digital images entered become crfg property and will not be returned . · by the submission of each entry , the entrant warrants that he or she is the creator of that image and grants to crfg the right to reproduce the image in fruit gardener magazine and elsewhere , with attribution to the originator . · crfg will duly consider each image for the prizes listed above and will award a prize to the entrant , or his or her assignee , for any image judged a winner . · entries will be judged by the development fund committee . · winners will be announced and winning photos will be displayed on august 14 , 2010 , at the festival of fruit in pomona , california . · there is no limit to the number of entries that can be submitted ; however , no contestant will be eligible to win more than 2 prizes in this year ’ s contest . print rules · only color photos in print form will be accepted . · there is no limit to the number of prints that can be submitted . · the minimum print size that will be accepted is 3 inches by 5 inches . · larger print sizes are preferred . · if possible , please send negatives along with prints . · a brief description with each image is requested , but simple identification of the subject is sufficient . · do not write on the fronts of photos for any reason . · do not write directly on the backs of photos ; use pre-gummed labels on the backs of photos and write on the labels . · pre-gummed labels on photo backs should also be used for the entrant ’ s name and address . · all entries must be received by july 5 , 2010 , and must be mailed to : crfg development fund committee attn : emory walton 335 e. gainsborough rd . thousand oaks , ca 91360 digital rules · cameras with high resolution ( pixel density greater than 1.6 megapixels ) are strongly recommended for capturing images submitted to the contest . · if camera resolution is selectable , the setting for the highest possible image quality should be used . · photo prints digitized using a flatbed scanner should be scanned with a minimum resolution setting of 300 dpi and a maximum setting of 600 dpi . · if a large print is available , scan it rather than enlarging a small print . · software should not be used to alter the original pixel density of any image submitted . · cropping and enhancements such as sharpness , color balance , contrast or brightness are permissible . · images will only be accepted in jpeg ( .jpg ) file format . · no other compression ( e.g. , .zip or .sit ) should be used on the file before transmitting it or saving it to a cd . · digital images may be submitted by postal mail , on a cd. follow print rules for mailing instructions. disk must be formatted to be readable by pc . · entrants can go to http : //www.crfg.org/g2 and choose the fruit shoot 2010 album. once in the album , select “ add items ” on the left side of the page. a menu will allow selection of the images the entrant wishes to upload from his or her computer. include a brief description of each entry as a caption . · send a notification to [ email protected ] , including : ü full name ü mailing address ü e-mail address ü number of images submitted to the contest ü a brief description of each submitted image is requested , but simple identification of the subject is sufficient . · digital entries may not be submitted before march 1 , 2010. all entries must be uploaded by july 5 , 2010 , 11 : 59 pdt . warning ! do not submit images containing watermarks , signatures or copyright information . · all entries to this contest become crfg property , and the contestant relinquishes all rights except the right of attribution . · send questions to [ email protected ]
