# begintemplate " /templates/inner.dwt " dw6 # begineditable " header " # endeditable # begineditable " content " nearly 100 submissions from 18 countries. and here are .. . " corals ( 1994-2003 ) " © craig quirolo without photo documentation the dramatic changes that have taken place on this reef are hard to imagine. this three hundred year old coral colony disappeared in less than a decade . ( click photo to enlarge ) " florida corals " © e.a. shinn , usgs the black and white photo taken in 1959 , shows a composite head consisting of two species of brain coral and one star coral. in 1988 the star coral at left has eroded away and by 1998 , the head is dead and encrusted with gorgonian corals . ( click photo to enlarge ) " crowded island " ( indonesia ) © leila sievanen/tyler davis this crowded island lies off the southern coast of north sulawesi , indonesia . about 65 percent of indonesia ’ s 240 million population live in the coastal zone . this number has been increasing and the impacts on coastal ecosystems have been dramatic as maximum sustainable yield of indonesian fisheries is rapidly being approached . ( click photo to enlarge ) rather amazing that the judges were drawn so strongly to these images of coral reef decline . all five of the judges picked the corals ( 1994-2003 ) photo set in their top five choices . we would also like to honor the nine submissions that also scored highly with the judges : ( click each photo to enlarge ) © axel schoeller falling star the ocean stage is getting destroyed and with it , its stars fall into darkness. we need to shift the spotlight on the dangers to keep the marine theatre alive . © luke gers manhattan beach just another great day at the beach...or is it ? no one here seems to mind the beachfront powerplant obscuring the view , nor the potential pollution and runoff hazards--not to mention the beach to the north is situated next hyperion sewage treatment plant . © ethan daniels shark fins burning shark fins , confiscated from an illegal fishing vessel , were piled and burned to show the world that illegal fishing within the republic of palau 's waters will not be tolerated . © ethan daniels shark fins members of the republic of palau 's police academy stand by a pile of confiscated shark fins. the president of palau , tommy e. remengesau , gave a quick , to the point speech regarding the management and conservation of palau 's marine resources , then lit the fins ablaze . © justin pfister happy holidays happy holidays from the yucatan ! it seems the trash here is now livelier than the reefs. the trash has given locals a new tradition of decorating their christmas tree with bright packaging from afar. i hope our oceans continue providing for us this well everyday of the year . © sara shoemaker lind beautiful but empty empty fish trap in empty sea , nha trang coast , vietnam. the empty trap represents a shift in culture in an area that 's now been abandoned by fishermen. they have been forced to accept the shifted baseline and move to new fishing areas . © donna d. markham jamaica these photos were taken in montego bay , jamaica. they were taken with a disposable kodak underwater camera. the reefs were located in front of the hotel i stayed at the montego beach resort. i heard that the snorkeling here was some of the best in jamaica. it is available to the guest of the hotel at no charge. it was wonderful , but maybe my own baseline is n't that high. destruction was very evident . © susan glover new mexico lake ( 1991 and 2001 ) as a teenager , i swam in the blue waters of elephant butte lake in new mexico. in my twenties i returned only for a photo. as a mother in my thirties , i brought my children to swim , but the water was gone. in recent times there has been increasingly more drought in the western states and therefore less water runoff to the reservoir. in addition , the reservoir water is used for irrigation purposes in new mexico , texas , and northern mexico . © chris s. witwer lighthouse the morris island lighthouse now stands directly in the ocean--morris island is gone. folly island ( foreground ) erodes at approximately 8-15 ft/yr. federally funded navigation projects have purportedly accounted for up to 57 % of this erosion . the judges chuck davis underwater photographer norman lear television producer jane lubchenco marine biologist steve palumbi marine biologist bob talbot underwater photographer # endeditable # endtemplate
