search duke university - center for documentary studies about events exhibits classes awards books projects donate visit us blogs home / awards cds documentary essay prize cds/honickman first book prize in photography cds filmmaker award dorothea lange – paul taylor prize john hope franklin student documentary awards julia harper day award daylight/cds photo awards cds documentary essay prize : writing and photography the cds documentary essay prize honors the best in documentary photography and writing in alternating years : one year , photos ; one year , writing. the focus is on current or recently completed work ( within the last two years ) from a long-term project — fifteen images ; fifteen to twenty pages of writing. the upcoming prize competition will be for writing. the winner of the competition will receive $ 3,000 ; have his or her work featured in document , a periodical published by the center for documentary studies , as well as on the center ’ s website ; and take part in cds ’ s documentary writer speaker series. the winner ’ s work will also be placed in the archive of documentary arts at the rubenstein library , duke university . iveta vaivode is the 2014 winner of the cds documentary essay prize in photography. cds/honickman first book prize in photography the center for documentary studies at duke university and the honickman foundation , based in philadelphia , co-sponsor this prestigious biennial prize. the only prize of its kind , the cds/honickman first book prize in photography competition is open to north american photographers of any age who have yet to publish a book-length work of their photographs. winners of the cds/honickman first book prize in photography receive a grant of $ 3,000 , publication of a book of photography , and inclusion in a website devoted to presenting the work of the prizewinners. the winner will also be given a solo exhibit at the photography gallery at duke university ’ s rubenstein library ; the photographs are then placed in the library ’ s archive of documentary arts . gerard h. gaskin is the 2012 winner of the cds/honickman first book prize in photography for legendary . submissions for the 2014 prize competition are being accepted through september 15 , 2014 . cds filmmaker award this $ 7,500 prize recognizes documentary films that combine originality and creativity with firsthand experience in examining central issues of contemporary life and culture. in keeping with the center for documentary studies mission , the award was created to honor and support documentary artists whose works are potential catalysts for education and change. the award winners are selected from among films in competition at the full frame documentary film festival , held each spring in durham , north carolina . darius clarke monroe is the 2014 winner of the cds filmmaker award for evolution of a criminal dorothea lange – paul taylor prize the center for documentary studies is proud to re-launch the lange-taylor prize , which supports documentary artists who are involved in extended , on-going fieldwork projects that rely on and exploit , in intriguing and effective ways , the interplay of words and images in the creation and presentation of their work. the winner will receive $ 10,000 , a solo exhibition at the center for documentary studies , and inclusion in the archive of documentary arts at rubenstein library , duke university . jen kinney is the 2013 winner of the dorothea lange-paul taylor prize john hope franklin student documentary awards this year marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the john hope franklin student documentary awards. the center for documentary studies makes these awards , of up to $ 2,000 , to undergraduates at four local universities ( ( duke university , university of north carolina at chapel hill , north carolina central university , and north carolina state university ) to help them conduct summer-long documentary fieldwork projects involving oral history , photography , film/video , nonfiction or creative writing , and/or audio . diego camposeco , rinchen dolma , shu-cao mo , and katherine zhang are the 2014 winners of the john hope franklin student documentary awards . julia harper day award the julia harper day award for documentary studies was created in 1992 by the center for documentary studies in memory of the young woman who was the center ’ s first staff member and who , herself , was a photographer and writer of real accomplishment. this award of $ 500 recognizes a graduating duke university senior who has demonstrated excellence in documentary studies and has significantly contributed to cds programs . david mayer is the 2014 winner of the julia harper day award daylight/cds photo awards daylight and the center for documentary studies cosponsored an international competition , the daylight/cds photo awards , in 2010 and 2011 to honor and promote both emerging and established photographers in two prize categories — a project prize and a work-in-process prize . visit daylight ’ s website for more information about the daylight photo awards . image above : pilcene ( detail ) . photograph by iveta voivode , winner of the 2014 documentary essay prize in photography . 1317 w. pettigrew street , durham , nc 27705 | phone : 919.660.3663 | email : contact us please contact us : your name your email address location on the site comment cancel you are not logged in . login
