thank you for your interest in receiving our newsletter. please take a moment and fill out the form below to start receiving our newsletter today. newsletter form press faq volunteer mailing list contact us films + events schedule , tickets supporters partners , sponsors about us mission , overview , staff donate get involved header image above all else eff presents the dc premiere of above all else , 7 : 00 p.m. , august 27 at e street cinema. screening followed by discussion with the filmmaker and other experts. read the synopsis and view the trailer . tickets , $ 10 . above all else 2015 sponsorship become a sponsor of the 2015 environmental film festival. be part of one of the country 's premier environmental events. for details , view the 2015 sponsorship package ( .pdf ) . ( c ) bruce guthrie 2014 festival wraps thanks to all who attended the 2014 festival at over 65 venues throughout washington , d.c. view the full 2014 festival report ( .pdf ) . growing cities what we can do after you see a film , check out links to additional resources to see how you can help ! journey to the south pacific begin main content behind the camera learn more about attending filmmakers & special guests suzan beraza beraza will be discussing uranium drive-in. born in jamaica and raised in puerto rico and the dominican republic , social and environmental issues pervade suzan 's work. her films have appeared on national public television and on the documentary channel , at lincoln center , and at many festivals. her last film , bag it , was honored as a finalist at the puma creative impact awards in berlin , and has... read more those who dwell among the beauties and mysteries of the earth are never alone or weary of life. - rachel carson 23rd festival , march 17-29 , 2015 washington , dc 2014 festival : the theme of the 2014 festival , our cities , our planet , examined the challenges posed by earth ’ s urban environments and the efforts of the world ’ s cities to balance environmental and economic needs. watch 38 past festival films streaming free on eff 's watch online portal . on august 27 eff presents dc premiere of above all else with q&a posted : 8/11/2014 on august 10 eff and the smithsonian national museum of natural history present stephen palumbi and anthony palumbi : the extreme life of the sea posted : 8/4/2014 call for short film entries - 2015 eric moe sustainability film award posted : 7/2/2014 loading latest tweet.. . close wrapper div © 2014 environmental film festival in the nation ’ s capital | sitemap | faq used to show embedded video content , # videocontent should be above the lightboxbackground
