environmental music for the diversity of life earthday radio listen and share about us green music list support earthday radio earthday radio this site is a bonanza of environmental music and the gateway to earthday.fm ( full spectrum ecomusic ) and weboflife.fm ( ecosongs for children ) . muse ( musicians united to sustain the environment ) set up these two web radio stations to recognize the diversity of musicians singing out for the diversity of life. stay in contact by signing up for earth song enews < . also on this website , you will find the world 's most comprehensive listing of green songs , earth songs , and environmental audio material , including over 5,000 songs with environmental , indigenous , and empowerment lyrics . this earth music spans six decades and includes a full spectrum of genres , including rock , metal , blues , reggae , country , and folk . the green music list and eco audo inventory includes songs by both well known and independent recording artists , and includes eco songs from australia , canada,singapore , united kingdom , united states , and more . here you will find an eco music database with nature songs , ocean songs , protest songs , energy songs , songs for native american land rights , songs integrating social and environmental justice , and songs for the web of life . please visit again soon , as we will be upgrading this website to include a searchable database of the eco music , so that you may search for songs by artist , genre , and topic . please help us spread the word , support this music , and join our growing coalition of supporters. you can help in many ways , support earthday music today . one way is to gift songs to the station. to gift a song to earthday radio , click to see our amazon wish list , click on the song that you want to contribute , and select give song as a gift . earthday radio listen and share about us green music list support earthday radio all contents copyright of the earthday radio project of musicians united to sustain the environment. contact : info @ earthdayradio.org
