your window on finnish environmental art independent , artist run online art project e nvironmentalart.net gallery / directory of artists / bookstore / links / © / info © info : the works of art may not be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means electronical or mechanical including downloading , print-out or by on-line-acces or any information storage and retrieval sytem without permission in writing from copyrightholders your window on finnish environmental art / ymp ä rist ö taide verkossa / editor : lea turto environmental art from finland environmentalart.net presents - online exhibitions - directory of artists - homepages of featured artists - news on-line exhibitions / art works of the season / nettin ä yttelyt / gallery publications 2006-013 / galleria julkaisut 2006-013 theme of the season 2014 : the forest / mets ä kaija kiuru : a tree symbolize the whole natural world the vulnerable nature - bracket fungi , birch forest , pine roots kaija kiuru ( b. 1959 ) lives and works in sodankyl ä , finnish lapland. northern nature was present in her childhood , because her father was a reindeer herder , and she also learnt to know forests , bogs and rivers during the family ’ s berry-picking and fishing trips. the relationship with nature in her childhood and youth together with studies of environmental protection and education in the 1990 ’ s created the ground on which kiuru ´ s art is based even today. by artickle : nature and space in kaija kiuru 's art ( 2011 ) start visualslideshow.com body section slideshow for html by visualslideshow.com v1.6 end visualslideshow.com body section fungi are an important part of the forest ecosystem. the older the forest is the more fungus species there exist. because the area of old forests has decreased , several species have become threatened. - read more about installation " invasion " 2008 k ä ä p ä on hy ö dyllinen lahottajasieni ja siten t ä rke ä osa mets ä n ekosysteemi ä . mit ä vanhempi ja luonnontilaisempi mets ä on kyseess ä , sit ä enemm ä n k ä ä pi ä ja k ä ä p ä lajeja l ö ytyy. vanhojen metsien v ä hentyess ä my ö s monet k ä ä p ä lajit ovat uhanalaistuneet. invaasio teos 2008 kaija kiuru tells : " natural materials and environmental questions bring themes for my works of art. i parallel man with nature by trying to find their similarities , but i also deal with man ’ s power in relation to nature. forests and trees are often the source of materials and ideas ; a tree may symbolize the whole natural world. " " luonnosta tulevat materiaalit ja ymp ä rist ö ö n liittyv ä t kysymykset antavat aiheita teoksiini. rinnastan ihmisen ja luonnon toisiinsa hakemalla niiden samankaltaisuutta ja toisaalta k ä sittelen ihmisen valtaa suhteessa luontoon. mets ä ja puut ovat usein materiaalien ja ideoiden l ä hteen ä , puu voi toimia koko luonnon symbolina. " - kertoo kaija kiuru. news " imigrant garden " book . second publication in english with kalle hamn ` s new watercolor paintings. immigrant garden introduces 26 decorative and culinary plants that in the course of centuries have arrived in the furthermost north . kalle hamm and dzamil kamanger have made different kind of versions of it for several exhibitions in finland : harvest - fiskars 2006 , rauma biennale balticum 2008 , jokigalleria in eura 2007 and gallery augusta in suomenlinna 2012 . they have also published a book , which is a core of the whole artwork . exhibitions , festivals : helsinki : save vartiosaari - art project iii june 8 - september 28 , 2014 http : //savevartiosaariart.weebly.com/ helsinki kivinokka 2014 : the last lingonberry / viimeinen puolukka - 14.6. – 30.10. - n ä yttelyn j ä rjest ä ä aalto-yliopiston ymp ä rist ö taiteen entiset ja nykyiset opiskelijat http : //kivinokka.laakeriseppele.com/for-visitors/ oranki art 14 n ä yttely oranki art ry j ä rjest ä ä kansainv ä lisen ymp ä rist ö taiden ä yttelyn 15.6.- 30.9.2014 orangissa pellon kunnassa . uusia taiteilijoita voi n ä hd ä oranki art facebook sivuilla ( https : //www.facebook.com/groups/32299428611/ ) palas taidepolku 2014 hyvink ä ä n palopuro . n ä yttely avataan kes ä kuun 14. p ä iv ä ja se on avoinna yleis ö lle 15.6. – 31.8. polku kulkee viljeltyjen luomupeltojen , harjun ja lehtomets ä n keskell ä . kuvia ja tietoja palas taidepolun n ä yttelyist ä : facebook , palas taidepolku / art path palas , www.palastaidepolku.com akaa : vuoden 2014 n ä kym ä n teema on n ä kev ä n sokeus. uusi kuraattori , taiteen tohtori mika karhu haluaa teemalla ravistella ja her ä tt ä ä n ä kem ä ä n arjen ep ä kohtia , jotka ovat silmiemme edess ä , mutta joita kielt ä ydymme n ä kem ä st ä . n ä kym ä -n ä yttely on kuraattorin ohjaama nykytaiteen l ä pileikkaus , joka t ä ht ä ä omaleimaisella tavallaan ymp ä rist ö taiteen esilletuomiseen. http : //www.nakyma.fi/ siltojen v ä liss ä -ymp ä rist ö taiteen n ä yttely su 8.6.-31.8.2014. j ä ms ä . teoksia mm. kuvataideakatemian opiskelijoilta. http : //www.joki-ry.org/ valon aika -n ä yttely pikku galleriassa ajalla 8.6.-6.7.2014 , osana siltojen v ä liss ä n ä yttely ä . teoksia aiempien vuosien taiteilijoilta . koli- environmental art festival and community based art project 2013-2015 www.koliartfestival.fi https : //www.facebook.com/koliymparistotaidefestivaali lea turto : stone svamps 2013 , communal art workshop in koli. facebook.com/koliymparistotaidefestivaali lea turto : stone svamps communal art in prosess mustarinda 2014 , hyrynsalmi - exergy t ü lay schakir , sara milazzo , tuomas a. laitinen 19.6. - 10.8. wed-sun 11-17 tickets 3/5 € , wednesdays free entrance http : //mustarinda.fi/ what is environmental art ? we recommend articles of greenmuseum.org " a profusion of terms " by sam bower environmentalart.net homepages featured artists / taiteilijat recycled art susanna autio siiri niemel ä sirpa svahn-kumpulainen tiina valkeap ä ä environmental art marja hakala kalle hamm , dzamil kamanger timo jokela kaarina kaikkonen pekka kainulainen sauli miettunen anne pehkonen jaakko pernu michael rahikainen anni rapinoja juha rouhikoski kaisa salmi riitta schildt jenni tieaho lea turto hanna vainio vinha-jonna katja ö hrnberg n ä yttelyryhm ä t / exhibition groups fire art n ä yttelyryhm ä t / exhibition groups oranki art park 2006 , pello , lapland oranki art park 2007 n ä yttelyryhm ä t / exhibition groups art and the landscape in finland an exhibition collection of 20 artists , adeleide festival center 2007 n ä yttelyryhm ä t / exhibition groups park - environmental art and sculpture exhibition an exhibition collection of 23 artists , ala-malmin puisto , helsinki 24.08. - 28.09. 2007 artists visited in finland 07 fumico azuma , ( japan / london ) laura feldberga ( latvia ) ojars feldbergs ( latvia ) usefull seach for this site etsitk ö tietoja taiteilijoista tai teoksista . k ä yt ä hakukonetta ( this site ) ! sivuston kautta l ö yd ä t n. 60 taiteilijaa . yl ö s info / environmentalart.net - independent , artist run online art project - curator , editor : visual artist lea turto , lives and works in jyv ä skyl ä finland . verkkogalleria julkaisee nettin ä yttelyit ä ,artikkeleita , uutisia , ilmoituksia ja esittelyit ä . verkkogallerian kuraattori ja toimittaja vuodesta 2002 on kuvataiteilija lea turto . web design lea turto. © .copyrighs info.
