" if one book can make a world of difference for animals , this is it ! " pieces of my heart — writings inspired by animals and nature by jim willis author of " how could you ? " , " the animals ' savior , " " the basset chronicles " and other favorites . sample pieces fundraising offer reviews ordering info foreign language editions please see the how could you ? page for a printer-friendly version . " killing with kindness " campaign " we are their heroes " now available in poster form to benefit greyhound angels network : click here for details ! " i loved you best " and " promises kept " now available as pet memorial frames : " i loved you best " memorial picture frame " promises kept " memorial picture frame pieces of my heart - writings inpired by animals and nature available in print and e-book formats from amazon.com ! see our ordering info page for details . as a " voice for the voiceless , " jim willis touches human hearts as deftly as he bonds with the animals he rescues. his writings have inspired animal lovers around the world in over a dozen languages. now , with publication of his collected writings , the author has made a generous arrangement with the publisher that can benefit the fundraising efforts of all animal rescue , conservation and environmental groups . in pieces of my heart - writings inspired by animals and nature the author paints an emotional rainbow with a palette akin to thoreau , khalil gibran , james thurber , chief seattle , and james herriot. pieces of my heart encompasses favorites such as " we are their heroes , " " how could you ? , " " the basset chronicles , " and " the zen of cat , " as well as a treasure-trove of new writings. included is an appendix of suggestions and resources for helping animals ; and a foreword by dr. marc bekoff , author of minding animals : awareness , emotions , and heart and co-founder with dr. jane goodall of ethologists for the ethical treatment of animals/citizens for responsible animal behavior studies. lavishly illustrated by christine j. head . ( softcover , 312 pages. ) pieces of my heart is a soulful , heartfelt tribute to animals and a plea for compassion. as you immerse yourself in its truths you 'll reach for the nearest animal to hug , you 'll smile through tears , and you 'll feel the urge to run barefoot in the grass . from the author : " i wanted pieces of my heart to depict the whole range of our relationship with animals - the funny , the serious , and the sad. i hope my book will entertain , inspire , comfort , and educate , and i hope animal-people will use some of the suggestions and resources contained in the appendix. most especially , i hope all rescuers , advocates and groups will take advantage of the quantity discount arrangement with infinity publishing and use pieces of my heart to help raise funds for their own efforts. " prepare for a warm glow ! " jim willis makes a connection with the hearts and souls of animals that all humans should strive for. his writings read as if the creatures he so passionately cares for penned them. he powerfully reinforces the concept and importance of the human-animal bond , and that bond is evident in nearly everything he writes. pieces of my heart comes closer to speaking the minds of our non-human animal brethren and speaking up for creation than anything else you 'll ever read. " — dick weavil , publisher , animaltalk newsletter order now from amazon.com sample pieces ordering info fundraising offer more reviews readers ' comments contact the author home cover , pieces of my heart , copyright © 2002 by doreen j. sanfelici illustration , " holding on to love , " copyright © 2002 by christine j. head photo , " noah 's eyes , " copyright © 2010 by pat crean , flying spots photography website design copyright © 2002 by michelle crean , hook and web designs , & the tiergarten sanctuary trust all rights reserved. for all reprint or foreign-language rights , please contact tiergartenmedialtd @ gmail.com .
