t ree a utomata t echniques and a pplications home download tata on gforge tata : the book a full version ( october , 12th 2007 ) is available. bibtex entry . and of course errata associated with this version . acknowledgments : many people gave substantial suggestions to improve the contents of this book. these are , in alphabetic order , witold charatonik , zoltan f ü l ö p , werner kuich , markus lohrey , jun matsuda , aart middeldorp , hitoshi ohsaki , p. k. manivannan , masahiko sakai , helmut seidl , stephan tobies , ralf treinen , thomas uribe , sandor v á gv ö lgyi , kumar n. verma , toshiyuki yamada . the book is still under construction. we seek for comments and suggestions. please write to : tata-discuss @ lists.gforge.inria.fr tata : how to the two first chapters contain the basics on tree automata theory for finite ordered ranked trees. chapter 3 shows connections between logic and tree automata. chapter 4 presents automata with constraints. chapter 5 presents automata for sets of tree languages. chapter 6 gives the basics on tree transducers. chapter 7 presents alternating tree automata. chapter 8 is about automata for unranked trees . contents of the chapters chapter 1 - recognizable tree languages and finite tree automata : chapter 2 - regular grammars and regular expressions chapter 3 - logic , automata and relations chapter 4 - automata with constraints chapter 5 - tree set automata chapter 6 - tree transducers chapter 7 - alternating tree automata chapter 8 - automata for unranked trees tata : the future we know that the book currently covers only few aspects of tree automata. a new chapter covering automata for unordered trees and more generally tree automata for trees modulo equational theories is scheduled. we welcome submissions of additional chapters investigating other aspects of tree automata. we believe it is important to keep the homogeneity of the book , which should not be a collection of chapters. hence submissions should be consistent with previous chapters. they will be reviewed by the current authors. if you wish to contribute , please send a message to tata-discuss @ lists.gforge.inria.fr . tata : the authors hubert comon max dauchet remi gilleron florent jacquemard denis lugiez christof l ö ding sophie tison marc tommasi some related links libraries , tools timbuk is is a library of objective caml functions designed to manipulate tree automata. developped under gpl by thomas genet and val é rie viet triem tong . rx : an interpreter for rational tree languages , by johannes waldmann at leipzig university . mona/fido : a system based on weak second-order theory of one or two succesors developed at brics , by nils klarlund , anders m ø ller and michael i. schwartzbach elan now provides a library for tree automata manipulations. elan is a software developped by loria ( cnrs , inria , universities of nancy ) . autowrite implements the tree automata constructions used in the decidability proofs of the call-by-need properties and many useful operations on terms , trss and tree automata. autowrite is developped by i. durand . < h3 > graphical tools < /h3 > < ul > < li > < a href = " http : //www.univ-orleans.fr/sciences/lifo/members/lecland/taja.html " > taja < /a > is written in java. realize classical operation on tree automata . < /ul > for any comment on this site : marc tommasi .
