backtesting trading strategies and automated trading platform - free download algorithms lecture notes , courses , tutorials , references , guides and online books . all of these are published at the algorithms directory , allowing quick access and accurate search . algorithms directory lecture notes title author description data structures and algorithms ( no frames ) john morris complete data structures and algorithms course. this course is taught at the university of western australia. the course teaches the following topics : objects and adts , constructors and destructors , data structure , methods , pre- and post-conditions c conventions , error handling , arrays , lists , stacks , stack frames , recursion , sequential searches , binary search , trees , complexity , queues , priority queues , heaps , bubble , heap sort , quick sort , bin sort , radix sort , searching revisited , red-black trees , avl trees , general n-ary trees , hash tables , dynamic algorithms , fibonacci numbers , binomial coefficients , optimal binary search trees , matrix chain multiplication , longest common subsequence , optimal triangulation , graphs , minimum spanning tree , dijkstra 's algorithm , huffman encoding , fft , hard or intractable problems , eulerian or hamiltonian paths , travelling salesman 's problem sorting and searching algorithms ( no frames ) thomas niemann a small guide on the following topics : arrays , linked lists , timing estimates , insertion sort , shell sort , quicksort , hash tables , binary search trees , red-black trees , skip lists , external sorts , b-trees . avl trees ( no frames ) brad appleton a tutorial on avl trees. the tutorial is part of a freely available public domain avl tree library written in c + + . the full c + + source code distribution may be found in the tutorial . animated algorithms woi ang , chein wei tan , mervyn ng collection of animated algorithms of the following algorithms : insertion sort , quicksort , bin sort , radix sort , priority queue sorting , hash tables searching , optimal binary search tree , huffman encoding , dijkstra 's shortest path , minimum spanning tree ( mst ) . downloads title author description algorithms cmsc 251 dave mount a book on the following topics : course introduction , analyzing algorithms : the 2-d maxima problem , summations and analyzing programs with loops , the 2-d maxima revisited and asymptotics , asymptotics , divide and conquer and mergesort , recurrences , medians and selection , long integer multiplication , heaps and heapsort , heapsort analysis and partitioning , quicksort , lower bounds for sorting , linear time sorting , introduction to graphs , graphs , graph representation and bfs , all pairs shortest paths , floyd warshall algorithm , longest common subsequence , chain matrix multiplication , np completeness : general introduction , np completeness and reductions algorithms comp 3001 antonios symvonis a collection of lecture notes covering the following topics : administrivia , introduction to algorithms , introduction to algorithms ( cont ) , graphs , breadth first search , depth first search topological sorting , divide-and-conquer ( intro ) , matrix multiplcation , the greedy method ; activity selection problem , huffman codes , single-source shortest path problems , minimum spanning trees , dynamic programming ; matrix chain-multiplcation , longest common subsequences , all-pairs shortest paths , on lower bounds , sorting in linear time , acyclicity testing , strongly connected components , mst : kruskal 's alg , single source shortest paths : belman-ford alg , sps in dags , maximum flow. the ford-fulkerson method , cuts on network flows , planar graphs , colouring of planar graphs , approximation algorithms , approximation algorithms ( cont ) , heuristics , pseudo-polynomial algorithms data structures cmsc 420 dave mount a document covering many data structures topics. great for most university courses . the document has 117 pages . design and analysis of computer algorithms cmsc 451 dave mount a book on the following subjects : asymptotics and summations , divide and conquer and recurrences , sorting , dynaminc programming , longest command subsequence , chain matrix multiplication , memoization and triangulation , greedy algorithms , huffman coding , activity selection and fractional knapsack , definitions and representations , breadth-first and depth-first search , topological sort and strong components , minimum spanning trees and kruskal 's algorithm , prim 's and baruvka 's algorithms for mst 's , dijkstra 's shortest path algorithms , bellman ford and floyd marshall shortes path , np-completeness : languages and np , reductions , cook 's theorem and other reducations , clique , vertex cover and dominating set , hamiltonian path , approximation algorithms : vc and tsp , set cover and bin packing , the k-center problem , recurrences and generating functions , articulation points and biconnected components , network flows and matching , the 0-1 knapsack problem , subset sum & approximation . graph theory prof. even a book covering many graph theory topics . advanced algorithms johan hastad a document on the following topics : notation and basics , primality testing , factoring integers , discrete logarithms , quantum computation , factoring polynomials in finite fields , factoring polynomials over integers , lovaszs lattics basis reduction algorithm , multiplication of large integers , matrix multiplication , matrix flow , bipartite matching . complexity theory johan hastad a document containing on following topics : recursive functions , efficient computation , hierarchy theorems , the complexity classes l , p and pspace , nondeterministic computation , relations among complexity classes , complete problems , constructing more complexity-classes , probabilistic computation , pseudorandom number generators , parallel computation , relativized computation , interactive proofs . linear programming johan hastad a short document on linear programming . trading autom á tico algorithmic trading copyrights © 2000-2011 www.oopweb.com , all rights reserved . please read our legal & privacy notice .
