another brick in the wall part 2 ( waters ) we do n't need no education we do n't need no thought control no dark sarcasm in the classroom teachers leave them kids alone hey ! teachers ! leave them kids alone ! all in all it 's just another brick in the wall . note this site is continuously under construction . i have found that links to courses and instructors are too unstable. thus most of the links below are to listing of course home pages maintained at various computer science departments. once there , you should search for algorithms , and then follow the appropriate link. suggestions for good links to add to this page , and corrections can be made by emailing me at kirk @ cs.pitt.edu note that i no longer put any real effort into maintaining this page . undergraduate and introductory graduate courses jeff edmonds ' introductory algorithms notes kirk pruhs , university of pittsburgh stanford theory group mit algorithms group uc berkeley theory group and uc berkeley classes cmu algorithms group with course information cornell courses princeton courses university of illinois courses university of washington courses university of wisconsin courses ( no course titles ; check for courses taught by bach and joseph ) toronto courses harvard courses cal tech courses brown courses ucla courses ( undergrad ) ( grad ) yale courses maryland courses new york university courses rice courses usc courses michigan courses ucsd courses duke courses unc courses arizona courses ( 445 is algorithms ) virginia courses some reliable links to people/courses that have been stable for years : uc berkeley : cs270 david eppstein , uc irvine samir khuller , university of maryland new york university : g22.1170 : fundamental algorithms steven skienna , suny stony brook cs787 graduate algorithms , university of wisconsin. christos papadimitriou , uc berkeley advanced or specialized courses computational geometry , samir khuller , university of maryland michel x. goemans , mit postscript lecture notes on online algorithms , randomized algorithms , network algorithms , linear programming , and approximation algorithms. numerical algorithms , kth university of washington : cs590bi : computational biology algorithms in the " real world " carnegie mellon university : 15-852 : randomized algorithms other algorithms related resources : steven rucich 's discrete math course probably the best discrete math hnotes on teh www ! another list of algorithm courses available on the web , temple university ernesto martin 's list of graph/network courses pointers stony brook algorithm repository maintained by steven skiena computational geometry , david eppstein , uc irvine a compendium of np optimization problems complexity of scheduling problems , university of osnabrueck analysis of algorithms : philippe flajolet , rocquencourt , and helmut prodinger hit count since april 4 , 1996 : last modified mar. 3 , 2001 by kirk pruhs . email : kirk @ cs.pitt.edu
