computer programming algorithms directory welcome to my computer programming algorithms directory. i am hoping to provide a comprehensive directory of web sites that detail algorithms for computer programming problems. if you know of any web sites that describe an algorithm ( or multiple algorithms ) , please send me an e-mail . encryption algorithms advanced encryption standard ( aes ) , digital signature standard ( dss ) [ includes description of digital signature algorithm ( dsa ) ] , secure hash standard ( shs ) - national institute of standards and technology 's official descriptions of the named algorithms among others . bruce schneier 's cryptography page - has descriptions of numerous encryption algorithms including blowfish , twofish , solitaire , helix , phelix , yarrow , threefish , skein and more. offers source code for a variety of platforms . kremlinencrypt - cryptography site provides an overview of cryptography algorithms and links to published descriptions where available . powerbasic crypto archives - offers powerbasic source code for many algorithms including : hashing - ripemd-160 , md5 , sha-1 , sha-256 , crc-16 , crc-32 , adler-32 , fnv-32 , elf-32 encryption - rsa-64 , diffie-hellman-merkle secure key exchange , rijndael , serpent , twofish , cast-128 , cast-256 , skipjack , tea , rc4 , pc1 , gost , blowfish , caesar substitutional shift , rot13 encoding - base64 , mime base64 , uuencode , yenc , neuronal network , urlencode , urldecode compression - lz78 , lzss , lzw , rle , huffman , supertiny psuedo-random number generation ( prng ) - mersenne twister number generator , cryptographic prng , mprng , moaprng , l'ecuyer lcg3 composite prng , w32.sql-slammer genetic algorithms artificial life - offers executable and source for ant food collection and the travelling salesman problems using genetic algorithms genetic ant algorithm - source code for a java applet that implements the genetic ant algorithm based upon the model given in koza , genetic programming , mit press introduction to genetic algorithms - introduces fundamentals , offers java applet examples jaga - offers a free , open source api for implementing genetic algorithms ( ga ) and genetic programming ( gp ) applications in java gis ( geographic information systems ) algorithms efficient triangulation algorithm suitable for terrain modelling - describes algorithm and includes links to source code for various languages prediction of error and complexity in gis algorithms - describes algorithms for gis sensitivitiy analysis point in polygon algorithm - describes algorithm sorting algorithms andrew kitchen 's sorting algorithms - describes parallel sorting algorithms : odd-even transposition sort has a worst case time of o ( n ) , running on n processors. its absolute speed up is o ( log n ) , so its efficiency is o ( ( log n ) /n ) shear sort has a worst case time of o ( n ½ log n ) , running on n processors. its absolute speed up is o ( n ½ ) , so its efficiency is o ( 1/n ½ ) ariel faigon 's library of sorting algorithms - c source code for a variety of sorting algorithms including insertion sort , quick sort , shell sort , gamasort , heap sort and sedgesort ( robert sedgewick quicksort optimization ) david martin 's sorting algorithms - source code and simple animations showing how they work for several algorithms - insertion · selection · bubble · shell · merge · heap · quick · quick3 flash sort - describes the flashsort algorithm which sorts n elements in o ( n ) time michael lamont 's sorting algorithms - describes common sorting algorithms : o ( n ² ) sorts - bubble , insertion , selection and shell sorts o ( n log n ) sorts - heap , merge and quick sorts sequential and parallel sorting algorithms - describes many sorting algorithms : quicksort heapsort shellsort mergesort sorting networks bitonic sort odd-even mergesort ls3-sort 4-way mergesort rotate sort 3 n -sort s ^ 2-way mergesort search algorithms exact string matching algorithms - details 35 exact string search algorithms . finding a loop in a singly linked list - outlines several methods for identifying loops in a singly linked list . fibonaccian search - describes an o ( log n ) search algorithm for sorted arrays that is faster than a binary search for very large arrays . tree algorithms b-trees : balanced tree data structures - introduction to b-trees. describes searching , splitting and inserting algorithms . minheap : c + + template implementation of minimum heap algorithm computational geometry algorithms geolib - downloadable gnu gpl ( free for non-commercial use ) library of c + + computational geometry algorithms. included in the library is a class representing a latitude and longitude position which provides conversion to cartesian co-ordinates allowing geospatial polygon representation . cgal - offers open source c + + library of computational geometry algorithms . fastgeo - offers source code for a library of computational geometry algorithms such as geometrical primitives and predicates , hull construction , triangulation , clipping , rotations and projections using the object pascal language . wykobi - fastgeo library ported to c + + . phonetic algorithms lawrence philips ' metaphone algorithm - describes an algorithm which returns the rough approximation of how an english word sounds. offers a variety of source code listings for the algorithm . soundex algorithm - describes the classic r. c. russell soundex algorithm . alternative soundex algorithms - nysiis , caverphone and q-gram algorithms . project management algorithms calculations for critical path scheduling - describes the algorithms for calculating critical paths with both adm and pdm networks . resource leveling using the minimum moment heuristic - description of the algorithm restated as an entropy maximization problem . project scheduling problem solver - heuristic based library for supporting research on the resource constrained scheduling problem. provides an oop api for the visualization , representation and solving of rcpsp . resource-constrained project scheduling - ( .pdf ) describes several algorithms for resource leveling : basic single mode rcpsp basic multi-mode rcpsp stochastic rcpsp bin packing related rcpsp multi-resource constrained project scheduling problem ( mrcpsp ) miscellaneous algorithms ai horizon - has a variety of algorithms , from basic computer science data structures such as 2-3 trees to ai-related algorithms such as minimax and a discussion of machine learning algorithms . cs animated - describes a variety of algorithms using narrated slideshow presentations ( videos ) . global optimization algorithms - theory and application - this is a free ebook ( 600 + page - 12.6mb .pdf file ) that focuses on evolutionary computation by discussing evolutionary algorithms , genetic algorithms , genetic programming , learning classifier systems , evolution strategy , differential evolution , particle swarm optimization , and ant colony optimization. it also elaborates on meta-heuristics like simulated annealing , hill climbing , tabu search , and random optimization. it contains many pseudocode descriptions for the algorithms . hash algorithms - overview and source code ( in c , pascal and java ) for many general purpose hashing algorithms . porter stemming algorithm - describes a process for removing the commoner morphological and inflexional endings from words in english. its main use is as part of a term normalisation process that is usually done when setting up information retrieval systems . rubik 's cube - solves a rubic 's cube using the bestfast search algorithm and profile tables . simulated annealing - the fundamental idea is to allow moves resulting in solutions of worse quality than the current solution ( uphill moves ) in order to escape from local minima. the probability of doing such a move is decreased during the search . the stony brook algorithm repository - offers a collection of algorithm implementations for over seventy of the most fundamental problems in combinatorial algorithms : data structures - dictionaries , priority queues , suffix trees and arrays , graph data structures , set data structures , kd-trees numerical problems - solving linear equations , bandwidth reduction , matrix multiplication , determinants and permanents , linear programming/simplex method , random number generation , factoring and primality testing , arbitrary precision arithmetic , knapsack problem , discrete fourier transform combinatorial problems - sorting , searching , median and selection , permutations , subsets , partitions , graphs , calendrical calculations , job scheduling , satisfiability graph problems - polynomial time problems ( connected components , topological sorting , minimum spanning tree , shortest path , transitive closure and reduction , matching , eulerian cycle / chinese postman , edge and vertex connectivity , network flow , drawing graphs nicely , drawing trees , planarity detection and embedding ) graph problems - hard problems ( clique , independent set , vertex cover , traveling salesman problem , hamiltonian cycle , graph partition , vertex coloring , edge coloring , graph isomorphism , steiner tree , feedback edge/vertex set computational geometry - robust geometric primitives , convex hull , triangulation , voronoi diagrams , nearest neighbor search , range search , point location , intersection detection , bin packing , medial-axis transformation , polygon partitioning , simplifying polygons , shape similarity , motion planning , maintaining line arrangements , minkowski sum set and string problems - set cover , set packing , string matching , approximate string matching , text compression , cryptography , finite state machine minimization , longest common substring , shortest common superstring introduction to neural networks - describes the back propagation algorithm for neural networks . nist dictionary of algorithms and data structures - some entries have links to implementations . other stuff koders - search engine specific to open source program code. search for the name of an algorithm and chances are you will find some code related to it . app development - blackberry , iphone and android mobile app development firm . youtube to mp3 - convert youtube videos to mp3 files ( free ) . seo adelaide - australian website marketing / promotion firm . banner advertising on this site is available. inquire
