nan 's parallel computing page this list contains links related to parallel computing. if you have any suggestions please send me e-mail : ncs @ cs.rit.edu please note that an ' xxx ' at the end of a line means that i have recently ( see the date at bottom of page ) had trouble getting there. i am working on fixing/deleting these links . bibliographies online books cluster computing colgate ufe 1998 workshop links companies and hardware online courses and tutorials education history java for parallel/high performance computing languages miscellaneous models other sites people research software standards nan schaller 's interests page e-mail : ncs @ cs.rit.edu nan schaller 's home page rit 's home page # # # # # begin pc webopaedia code # # # # # a href = " http : //www.sandybay.com/pc-web " target = " _top " img src = " http : //www.sandybay.com/pc-web/images/awards/selected.gif " width = " 68 " height = " 63 " border = " 0 " alt = " selected by pc webopaedia " # # # # # end pc webopaedia code # # # # # # # # # # begin looksmart code # # # # # # # # # # end looksmart code # # # # # # # # # # begin links2go code # # # # # links 2 go parallel computers # # # # # end links2go code # # # # # odyssey faq the sc + + language - synchronous java applied parallel research , inc . arch library center for computational research , suny buffalo concurrent systems engineering the deadlock checker tool electrical and computer engineering 6750 embedded solutions - academic program overview galaxy parallel supercomputer project jce - the game of life ieee tcpp kuck & associates , inc . introduction to openmp openmp standard for shared-memory parallel directives course : writing parallel programs with openmp parallel programming - unc charlotte parallel programming - ncsu csc495a home page parallel programming -- department of computer science sun online documentation sunlabs : 1998 technical reports the theory and practice of concurrency tools for csp cluster computing mosix - scalable cluster computing for linux ( hebrew univ. ) appleseed-parallel macintosh cluster ieee cs task force on cluster computing kal á ka , distributed system for high performance parallel computing ( univ. of auckland , nz ) scl cluster cookbook java for parallel/high performance computing concordia home page concurrent programming using the java language concurrency : state models and java programs infosphere infrastructure - current release ipca - parallel : occam : projects : occam-for-all : javapp ipca - parallel : kroc jafmas java communicating sequential processes ( jcsp ) library ctj - communicating threads in java ( nl ) java ( tm ) distributed computing java parallel javaone session presentations topic links and pages mpijava home page index of /javampi/ an object-oriented message-passing interface for java java for scientific computing dogma homepage mpi java wrapper implementation http : //wwwipd.ira.uka.de/javaparty/ javagrande.org object management group home page hp java draft white paper dogma homepage wmpi official web site home linpack benchmark -- java version project bayanihan home page the jpvm home page bsp worldwide home page jada home page distributed and high-performance computing ( dhpc ) group ptolemy ii proactive pdc java library ( java // ) dr.dincer 's home page colgate ufe 1998 workshop links participants ( group photo ) ( odd-even sort photo ) ( at the colgate inn photo ) parallaxis parallaxis-iii - a structured data-parallel programming language ( univ. of stuttgart ) parallaxis manual ( html access to postscript sections ) parallaxis-iii : a language for structured data-parallel programming jcsp java communicating sequential processes ( jcsp ) ( peter welch - kent university ) javapp ( java plug and play ) ( uk ) ctj - communicating threads in java [ javapp ( java plug and play ) ] ( nl ) threads caltech structured multithreaded programming project ( john thornley - john-t @ cs.caltech.edu ) design and performance issues in multithreaded programming of shared-memory multiprocessors ( john thornley 's presentation - html ) design and performance issues in multithreaded programming of shared-memory multiprocessors ( john thornley 's presentation - power point slides ) john thornley 's structured programming for multiprocessors course miscellaneous openmp sgi jack perry jperry @ sgi.com the portland group , inc . kuck & associates , inc . ninth siam conference on parallel processing for scientific computing charles koelbel , rice university - giving openmp tutorial at siam conference pgl - a parallel graphics library for distributed memory applications ( icase ) parallel network topologies and algorithm animations ( rit - vrml 2.0 ) joel adam 's parallel computing history links ( calvin college ) joel adam 's parallel computing resources ( calvin college ) joel adam 's parallel computing photos ( calvin college ) designing and building parallel programs ( ian foster ) the occam archive ( oxford univ. ) kroc - occam for all ( univ. of kent ) mpi a list of mpi tutorials ( msstate ) mpi course ( edinburgh ) mpi quick tutorials ( notre dame ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface tutorial ( usfca ) mpi resources ( calvin ) freely available mpi implementations ( msstate ) lam/mpi parallel computing ( local area multicomputer ) mpi : message passing interface library materials at cornell mpich-a portable implementation of mpi ( anl ) joel adam 's notes about the " mpich installation experience " unify - mpi subset ( miss. st. univ. ) winmpi - mpi for ms windows 3.1 ( u. of nb omaha ) chimp ( common high-level interface to ( mpi ) message passing ( univ. of edinburgh ) mpi : the complete reference ( dongarra , snir , otto , huss-lederman , walker ) a list of mpi books ( mpi ) message-passing interface libraries ( anl ) mpi2 message-passing page ( wisc ) mpi documents ( mpi forum ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface ( anl ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface ( anl ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( netlib ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( ornl ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( mississipi state ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface document ( anl ) mpi - a message-passing interface standard ( uc ) xmpi - a run/debug gui for mpi ( notre dame ) yahoo mpi parallel computing education cluster computing ( ieee task force on cluster computing ) undergraduate computational engineering and science project ( ameslab ) colgate university parallel computing computational science resources ( oregon ) edinburgh - summer scholarship programme ( scotland ) forum on parallel computing curricula ( wellesley '95 ) second forum on parallel computing curricula ( spaa '97 ) introductory lectures on data-parallel computing an interactive multimedia cd-rom ( wellesley ) introduction to parallel computing ( calvin college ) high performance computing and communications glossary parallel network topologies and algorithm animations ( rit - vrml 2.0 ) metacenter education : programs for undergraduate and graduate students the cornell theory center virtual workshop project npac research experiences for undergraduates in high performance computing ( syracuse ) russ miller 's report on parallel computing education nasa tutorial on parallel computing introduction to parallel computing ( nwu ) teaching parallel algorithms to precollege students ( u. of michigan ) tltp home page ( uk ) ga tech : visualization of parallel and distributed programs cs246 : advanced computer architecture ( harvard ) computer science 261 : research topics in operating systems ( harvard ) parallel computing history joel adam 's parallel computing history links ( calvin college ) joel adam 's parallel computing photos ( calvin college ) parallel computing courses and tutorials online parallel and heterogeneous classes on line high performance computing tutorials ( ames lab ) cs267applications of parallel computers ( berkeley ) cs 294-5 : multiprocessor networks ( berkeley ) cs 258 parallel processors ( berkeley ) selected architecture notes ( uc davis ) cs-551 : parallel computing : models , languages and architectures ( boston u ) cs 138 computer algoritms ( caltech ) 15-499b : parallel algorithms and programming ( cmu ) 15-846 : introduction to parallel algorithms and programming ( cmu ) 15-612 : distributed systems ( cmu ) macs 440/563 : parallel computing for scientists and engineers ( co school of mines ) the scalable parallel system model ( george mason u ) ee 8341a design and analysis of multiprocessor interconnection ( gatech ) parallel matix-matrix multiplication ( indiana ) introduction to parallel computing ( maui high performance computing center ) sp parallel programming workshop ( maui high performance computing center ) introduction to effective parallel computing ( u. michigan ) parallel & distributed computing syllabus ( unc ) parallel programming at unc-charlotte parallel programming : techniques and application using networked workstations and parallel computers ( unc-charlotte ) numerical methods on parallel computers ( penn st ) concurrent programming in java tutorials and design patterns ( suny oswego ) cps615-linear programming and whirlwind full matrix discussion ( syracuse ) high performance fortran educational materials ( npac , syracuse ) parallel processing courseware ( cardiff ) parallel processing i ( u. of cardiff ) introduction to the ncube2 ( cardiff ) hypertext tutorial introduction to the ncube2 ( cardiff ) parallel computer architectures and systems ( university of crete ) courses available from epcc-tec ( edinburgh ) parallel algorithms for supercomputers 1 ( utrecht university ) high performance computing tutorials ( hpcc at southampton u , uk ) hensa internet parallel computing archive parallel : teaching : courses system guides and tutorials ( queensland , australia ) a list of mpi tutorials mpi : message passing interface library materials at cornell mpi course ( edinburgh ) mpi resources ( calvin ) mpi quick tutorials ( notre dame ) mpc tutorial ( russian academy of sciences ) parallel computing online books computational science electronic textbook ( ornl ) ( caltech ) archetypes " electronic textbook " table of contents ( chandy ) ( edinburgh ) " cs research in hpc " ( hondroudakis ) designing and building parallel programs ( foster ) mpi : the complete reference ( dongarra , snir , otto , huss-lederman , walker ) a list of mpi books parallel computer architecture a hardware/software approach , by culler and singh parallel computing works ( fox , williams , messina ) pvm : parallel virtual machine : a users ' guide and tutorial for networked parallel computing ( geist , beguelin , dongarra , jiang , manchek , sunderam ) sr programming language ( hartley ) parallel computing online bibliographies bibliographies on parallel processing i ( univ. karlsruhe , germany ) bibliographies on parallel processing ii ( arizona ) bibliographies on parallel processing iii ( manitoba ) index for papers - papers ( purdue ) parallel computing archive at hensa unix ( uk ) parallel computing archive at hensa unix ( us mirror site ) parallel i/o archive ( dartmouth ) sel-hpc article archive ( uk ) wang 's bookshelf ( parallel computing ) and much ! ! ! more the world-wide web virtual library : distributed / meta - computing yahoo - computers and internet : supercomputing and parallel computing : journals parallel computing standards high performance fortran educational materials fortran parallel programming systems ( rice ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface ( mpi ) message-passing interface ( mpi ) message-passing interface ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( netlib ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( mpi ) message-passing interface libraries ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( ornl ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface page ( mississipi state ) ( mpi ) message-passing interface document mpi - a message-passing interface standard ( mpi ) message-passing interface tutorial xmpi - a run/debug gui for mpi ( notre dame ) yahoo mpi mpi2 message-passing page ( wisc ) mpi documents ( mpi forum ) openmp parallel computing online software starlogo ( mit ) the arch library - programming tools for concurrent and parallel software development national hpcc software exchange ( nhse ) ( netlib ) netlib repository at utk and ornl national hpcc software exchange ( nhse ) the parallel tools consortium parallel tools projects around the world ( llnl ) corba and omg information resources , the object management group 's common object request broker architecture ( omg/corba ) ( lanl ) the cc + + programming language ( caltech ) chimp ( common high-level interface to ( mpi ) message passing ( univ. of edinburgh ) dapple - data parallel library for education ( dartmouth ) enterprise programming environment ( univ. of alberta , ca ) fortran d system v0.6 - september 1994 ( rice ) floyd hanson 's help on-line for parallel and super computer tools ( rice ) high performance c + + ( indiana ) horus ( cornell ) horb karma , parallel programmer toolkit ( csiro ) freely available mpi implementations lam/mpi parallel computing ( local area multicomputer , notre dame ) mpich-a portable implementation of mpi joel adam'snotes about the " mpich installation experience " unify - mpi subset ( miss. st. univ. ) winmpi - mpi for ms windows 3.1 ( u. of nb omaha ) linpack benchmark in java ( netlib ) info on mentat ( virginia ) parallaxis-iii - a structured data-parallel programming language ( univ. of stuttgart ) parallel applications development environment ( pade ) ( nist ) parallel genetic algoritms package ( anl ) parallel virtual machine ( pvm ) version 3 ( netlib ) index for pvm3 library ( netlib ) parallel virtual machine ( pvm ) home page ( ornl ) passion i/o tool pious for pvm ( emory ) yahoo pvm commercial version of pvm from pcs ( parallel computer systems ) ( uk ) release note of pvm-atm 3.3.2.0 ( univ. mn ) pgl - a parallel graphics library for distributed memory applications ( icase ) pc + + /sage + + information ( indiana ) scalapack ( netlib ) scriptic ( netlib ) trapper vpe : visual parallel processing environment ( u. of tennessee ) nasa inhouse team software exchange cornell theory center software documentation : parallel tools yahoo : computers and internet : supercomputing and parallel computing : programming parallel computing people guy blelloch ( cmu ) thomas braeunl ( u. of stuttgart ) scott cannon ( utah state ) jack dongarra ( u. of tn , ornl ) alan edelman ( mit ) allan gottlieb ( nyu ) jonathan hardwick ( cmu ) dan hyde ( bucknell ) david kotz ( dartmouth ) russ miller ( suny buffalo ) manavendra misra ( co school of mines ) h. j. siegel ( purdue ) quentin f. stout ( u. michigan ) domenico talia gregory v. wilson ( toronto ) parallel computing forum participants parallel computing research adifor : automatic differentiation of fortran codes ( anl ) adifor : automatic differentiation of fortran codes ( rice ) argonne mcs research topics ( rice ) u. of alberta 's parallel programming systems research laboratory caltech center for advanced computing research caltech structured multithreaded programming project cornell theory center mit asci project home page parallel programming laboratory ( univ. of il , urbana ) cmu - supercomputing and parallel computing research groups cmu - supercomputing and parallel computing research groups ga tech. - computer architecture and parallel simulation the center for research on parallel computation ( npac - syracuse u. ) distributed algorithms & systems home ( nl ) npac research projects npac research projects nyu ultracomputer ornl paderborn center for parallel computing ( germany ) paradise - a parallel database system for gis applications ( univ. of wisconsin ) paradyn parallel performance tools ( univ. of wisconsin ) parallel computing group ( univ. of kent , uk ) parallel computing group ( univ. of kent , uk ) pittsburgh supercomputer center yahoo : computers and internet : supercomputing and parallel computing : institutes parallel computing - languages ada alloy ( ftp/nyu ) arjuna ( ftp/uk ) beta ( dk ) charm ( univ. of il , urbana ) csp ( oxford ) code ( u. tx ) compositional c + + concert system ( univ. of il ) cubl ( it ) dapple ( dartmouth ) eiffel the eiffel parallel execution environment erlang ( sweden ) fortran 90 ( cern ) michael metcalf 's fortran 90 cnl articles ( cern ) fortran 95 handbook high performance fortran forum ( rice ) high performance fortran forum - hpf2.0 ( rice ) fortran 90 for the fortran 77 programmer ( co ) high performance fortran educational materials gcc-transputers glish ( ftp ) handel-c high performance c + + ( indiana ) java javall - distributed , concurrent and parallel computing in java javapp ( java plug and play ) ( uk ) javapp ( java plug and play ) ( nl ) the limbo programming language caltech infospheres project ( java based ) concordia ( java based ) odyssey ( java based ) voyager ( java based ) programming mobile agents in java a java-based agent framework for multiagent systems development and implementation the linda group ( yale univ. ) linda in the uk ( univ. of york ) javelin , distributed linda using java introduction to linda ( queensland , au ) ftp access to posybl , a linda implementation for unix networks. ( greece ) xxx ftp access to posybl , a linda implementation for unix networks. ( finland ) kristina lundqvist , uppsala , sweden , ada-linda ada-linda glenda , a linda like system mentat ( u. va ) modula-2 * ( germany ) mpc - parallel c built on mpi ( russia academy of sciences ) nesl : a parallel programming language ( cmu ) nexus xxx the occam archive ( oxford univ. ) kroc - occam for all ( univ. of kent ) kroc - occam for all -documentation ( univ. of kent ) kroc - occam for all - documentation ( ftp ) ( univ. of kent ) parallaxis-iii - a structured data-parallel programming language ( univ. of stuttgart ) parasol ( carlton , ca ) parlance ( uk ) pc + + /sage + + ( in ) presto ( wahington ) psather ( berkeley ) scandal project home page ( cmu ) sc + + home page ( epfl.chg ) sisal - a high performance , portable , parallel programming language ( llnl ) yahoo supercomputing_and_parallel_computing/programming/languages/ yahoo supercomputing_and_parallel_computing/programming/threads/ zpl -parallel programming language parallel computing - miscellaneous ( rit ) the computer architecture design laboratory ( u of cincinnati ) concurrent systems java threads workshop ( univ. of kent , uk ) java tutorials for parallel computing ( wotug20 , nl ) namd ( not just another molecular dynamics program , u of il ) occam design tool ( univ. of kent , uk ) parallel sites ( nag , uk ) pooma workshop ( parallel object-oriented methods and applications , lanl ) papers , purdue 's adapter for parallel execution and rapid synchronization yahoo : computers and internet : supercomputing and parallel computing yahoo : science : computer science : distributed computing parallel computing - models c ^ 3 logp bsp - bulk synchronous parallel model ( harvard ) bsp architectures bsp - programming bsp - model bsp - model ( oxford ) bsp - environment ( oxford ) bsp - libraries ( oxford ) bsp repository ( carleton u ) bsp repository ( carleton u ) bsp world wide bsp book chapter ( edinburgh ) bsp ( harvard ) bsp skeleton-based models archive solving large systems of differential equations in parallel using covers and skeletons parallel actor-based languages papers parallel actor-based languages paper parallel computing other sites anl - math and computer science division u. calgary - distributed systems lab the cardiff computing maths information server cardiff hpc training & education centre homepage concurrent systems csiro high performance & supercomputing information hpc links hptc reference - web sites parallel and distributed computing resources ( carlton university ) center for parallel computing ( u. of michigan ) nas parallel tools group hotlist cmu - supercomputing and parallel computing research groups scri home page dec 's hpc page mathematical , information , and computational sciences division edinburgh parallel computing centre indiana - welcome to cica 's www server david a. bader 's parallel sites ( u. of md. ) parascope - listing of parallel computing sites ( ieee computer society ) u. of mn. - army high performance computing research center laboratoire de l'informatique du parall é lisme ( lyon , france ) ram meenakshisundaram 's transputer page mit parallel and distributed operating systems group nasa - parallel computing ncar - scientific computing division ncsa - additional resources ncsa math and cs group ohio supercomputer center hpc related information servers ( paderborn , germany ) rice u. - crpc home document sandia national labs massively parallel computing research laboratory ( mpcrl ) sdsc world wide web server sel-hpc : the london & south-east centre for high performance computing u. of southampton , uk - high performance computing centre u. of southampton , uk - high performance computing centre supercomputing resources on the internet supercomputing servers ( caltech ) ( syracuse u ) northeast parallel architectures center u.k. national high performance computing u.k. parallel computing archive at hensa unix u.s. national coordination office for hpcc the national consortium for hpc yale center for parallel supercomputing top 500 supercomputer sites parallel computing companies supercomputer gifs supercomputer and parallel computers alex computer systems , inc . compaq ( alphaserver sc convex computer corporation tera/cray research inc . corollary ( intel ) embedded solutions ltd . flavors technology incorporated . fujitsu hewlett packard ibm corporation nec quadrics large scale computing - ibm corporation large scale computing - ibm corporation xxx the numerical algorithms group , inc . ice - integrated computing engines , inc . intel corporation opal-rt technologies parallel efforts using linux kuck & associates , inc . mercury computer systems , inc . myrias computer technologies parsytec the portland group , inc . sgi sun microsystems tandem thinking machines corp . transtech parallel systems tti - tsunamic technologies , inc . yahoo : business and economy : companies : computers : systems : supercomputers yahoo : business_and_economy : companies : computers : hardware : supercomputers yahoo : business_and_economy : companies : computers : software : programming_tools : parallel_programming nan schaller 's interests page nan schaller 's home page rit home page nan c. schaller rochester institute of technology computer science department 102 lomb memorial dr . rochester , ny 14623-5608 telephone : + 1.716.475.2139 fax : + 1.716.475.7100 e-mail : ncs @ cs.rit.edu 27 june 2001
