supercomputing and parallel computing research groups keywords : high performance computing , research project , team , home page [ index | conferences | research groups | vendors | supercomputers ] note : i 've moved on to another job , and i can no longer afford the time to keep this site updated. i recommend ieee 's parascope as a good alternative . academic research groups working in the field of supercomputing and parallel computing . it complements < a href = " http : //www.ccsf.caltech.edu/other_sites.html " > caltech 's list < /a > of major institutions in the same field . abcpl an object-based concurrent language. model of concurrency based on parallel active objects . adl data parallel functional programming languages for distributed memory architectures . adsmith object-based dsm environment on pvm . alewife large-scale multiprocessor with shared memory and message passing . amdc active-message driven computing. computational model and system based on computation at abstract locations , and built on active messages . am active messages. simple primitives exposing full hardware performance to higher communication layers . apar parallel architectures group. portable parallel programming environment , parallel 3d terrain analysis and visualization . ape/quadrics high performance simulations of lattice gauge theories and qcd . apples application level scheduling. scheduling agents for resource control on production heterogeneous systems . automap task parallel coordination language for dynamic applications . avalanche multiprocessor with distributed shared memory and message passing . aztec iterative sparse linear solver for unstructured sparse matrics . bsp bulk synchronous parallel model research group . c4 canonical classes for concurrency control. c + + classes for parallel programming . camas computer aided migration of applications system. tools to parallelize existing dusty deck programs . capp center for applied parallel processing. scalable algorithms for solving grand challenge problems . cap parallel object stores , i/o , languages and compiler techniques , visualisation , text retrieval , linear algebra , mpi . carlos a software multiprocessor with distributed shared memory . cashmere coherence algorithms for shared memory architectures . cc + + parallel programming language based on c + + . chant a talking threads package -- lightweight threads communicating between processors . chaos efficient multiprocessor libraries for irregular scientific problems ( chaos + + ) and parallel i/o ( jovian ) . chaos multicomputer interconnection network routing hardware , simulator , and analysis . cid parallel extension of c that provides a programming model of mimd threads plus shared objects . cilk efficient execution of multithreaded computations . code visual parallel programming system . converse / ppl converse is a portable runtime system supporting interoperable parallel languges , including the charm + + object-oriented language . crl c region library. all-software distributed shared memory system . csag concurrent systems architecture group. fine-grained massively-parallel computer systems ( concert system ) . cva concurrent vlsi architecture. fine-grained concurrent computing mechanisms . cvm coherent virtual machine. multi-protocol , multi-threaded , fault-tolerant , software distributed memory system . d system tools for machine-independent parallel programming ( fortran d ) . ddd dynamic distributed data. parallel programming model based on dynamic graph-like datastructures . ddm data diffusion machine. scalable cache-only virtual shared memory architecture . dice direct interconnection of computing elements. coma for commercial servers . dipc distributed interprocess communication. parallel processing primitives for linux , including distributed shared memory . dome distributed object migration environment. programming using distributed objects on a heterogeneous network . eco efficient collective communication for message passing applications . excalibur compiling array-oriented languages onto parallel machines . falcon threads-based tools for monitoring and steering of parallel applications . filaments fine-grain parallelism on shared- and distributed-memory machines . flash multiprocessor with shared-memory and message-passing protocols . fm fortran m. task-parallel extensions to fortran ; integration of task and data parallelism . fork95 c-based parallel programming language , targetted at sb-pram . fx parallelizing fortran compilers and applications . ga global arrays. shared-memory programming interface for distributed-memory computers . glu granular lucid. programming system for constructing parallel and distributed applications . guard relative debugging for parallel and supercomputing applications . hpc + + a standard model for parallel programming using c + + . hpff high performance fortran forum. data-parallel and data distribution extensions to fortran . i-acoma illinois aggressive coma. tightly-coupled multiprocessor with flat cache-only memory architecture . icc interprocessor collective communication library. fast collective communication library for the intel paragon . icl innovative computing labs. netlib , blas , hence , lapack , mpi , pvm , etc . impact illinios microarchitecture project utilizing advanced compiler technology. superscalar optimizing compiler . impala ( implicitly parallel language application suite ) . collection of applications in id and ph . iwarp distributed memory parallel machine and applications . koan/fortran-s shared virtual memory system and fortran interface . lam local area multicomputer. message-passing programming environment for heterogeneous networks . linda coordination languages and tools for parallel and distributed computation , adaptive parallelism ( piranha ) . locust distributed shared virtual memory system on network of workstations . makbilan custom parallel computer ( makbilan ) , shared memory parallel c ( parc ) , and runtime system ( maxi ) . mentat object-oriented architecture-independent parallel processing system . mermaid performance evaluation of mimd platforms . mirage distributed shared memory system on network of workstations . modula-2 * high-level explicitly parallel imperative programming language . mosix a set of bsd/os enhancements that transform a pc cluster into a scalable super-multicomputer . mpc + + massively parallel , message passing , meta-level processing c + + designed to exploit multithreading and message-driven execution on rwc-1 mpp . mpc a parallel superset of c for programming distributed memory machines . multipol library of distributed data structures for solving irregular problems . nexus multithreaded runtime system providing communication and resource support for higher-level applications . nimrod a workstation hunter for large parametric modelling experiments . now network of workstations. using a network of workstations to act as a distributed supercomputer . numachine modular , cost-effective and scalable shared-memory multiprocessor . numesh massively parallel interconnect with highly modular packaging . omega frameworks , algorithms and software for analyzing and transforming scientific programs . orca parallel programming language for distributed systems , based on shared data-object model . oof90 high performance object-oriented programming in fortran 90 . p3l skeleton-based parallel programming language with template-based implementation . pablo the interaction of architecture , system software , and applications on massively parallel computer systems . pade parallel applications development environment. graphical application development environment for heterogeneous networked computers . papers custom hardware for fast collective communication in pc cluster . para + + portable c + + bindings for message passing libraries . paradigm parallelizing compiler for distributed-memory general-purpose multicomputers . paradigm ( parallel digital image modelling ) . parallel spatial modelling and applied parallel computing . paradyn performance measurement tools for large-scale parallel/distributed programs . parasol esprit project to develop parallel solvers for sparse systems of linear equations . parastation fast interconnection network and software for off-the-shelf workstation clusters . parl parallel architecture research laboratory. performance analysis of parallel and distributed architectures. nmsu tracebase trace archive . passion parallel and scalable software for i/o. support for i/o intensive out-of-core loosely synchronous problems . pc + + /sage + + portable parallel c + + for high performance computers . pcipa parallel computing , image processing and applications. biologically-motivated approaches to pattern recognition . pcu software tools , computational science applications , visualization , algorithms , languages , theory . pcv parallel computer vision. real-time stereo computer vision ( alvinn ) , parallel object recognition . pdl parallel data laboratory. parallel file systems , aggressive prefetching in file systems , and raid . peace parallel execution and communication environment. object-oriented os and runtime library for massively parallel architectures . penny parallel implementation of akl . petsc portable , extensible , toolkit for scientific computation. parallel software for the numerical solution of pdes . pet programming environments and tools. message passing , parallel i/o , checkpointing , and run-time tools and monitoring . ph a parallel , eagerly-evaluated version of haskell . ppp parallel performance project. application and performance modelling for high-performance computers . propercad parallel vlsi cad applications based on an object-oriented parallel library . prospero prospero resource manager : parallel application manager for workstation clusters . proteus prototyping language and environment for high-level parallel programs . psi parallel algebraic reductions on array expressions based on psi calculus . ptools parallel tools consortium at oregon state university . working groups on message queue manager , lightweight corefile browser , and portable timing routines . ptt parallel tools team at nas . investigating and developing useful parallel tools . pvm parallel virtual machine. programming a heterogeneous network of machines as a single distributed memory parallel machine . quake supercomputer simulation of large basin motion during strong earthquakes . quarks portable distributed shared memory system . rpm a hardware emulator for the rapid prototyping of multiprocessor systems . rtcl the harts architecture and other research on interconnection networks . sam distributed shared memory system and associated parallel language ( jade ) . sb-pram building a massively parallel uniform-memory-access shared-memory multiprocessor . scandal super compilers and advanced languages. nested data parallel languages ( nesl ) , efficient parallel algorithms . scg scientific computation group. lparx coarse grain data parallel programming abstractions , load balancing , adaptive numerical methods . scpl scalable concurrent programming laboratory. multi-level compilers , programming irregular problems . shrimp scalable , high-performance , really inexpensive multi-processor . simple coma hybrid hardware/software cache-only memory architecture implementation . sisal portable high-performance functional language . split-c parallel extension to c with global address space for distributed-memory multiprocessors . sr synchronizing resources. concurrent programming language . suif research into compiler techniques for parallel languages . synergy parallel programming using passive object flow . telegraphos high-speed communication for workstation clusters . treadmarks global shared address space on networks of workstations . uc + + light-weight concurrency in c + + . uc a set-based data-parallel programming language . ultracomputer parallel computer architecture and software design . vic virtual memory c * . v nested data-parallel extension of c . wwt wisconsin wind tunnel. the interface between parallel hardware and parallel languages . xputer reconfigurable hardware accelerators and their compilers . zpl portable data-parallel array language for scientific and engineering computation . other places to look research centers and groups list from david bader . hpc research groups list from edward smythe . distributed shared memory groups list from pete keleher . distributed algorithms and systems list from jaap-henk hoepman . the dataflow page from john o'regan . research in object-oriented parallel computing from james b. white iii . if you 're trying to track down a group and ca n't find it using any of these lists , try hotbot or alta vista ( they 've both got most of the web indexed these days ) , or the < a href = " http : //www.cs.cmu.edu/ ~ anwar/cs-departments.html " > list of cs department home pages < /a > . and then please tell me where the group 's home page is ! jonathan hardwick . generated on 24 july 97 .
