< ! [ endif ] container header home benefits docs download success stories support contribute thin client solution for linux ltsp is a thin client solution for linux operating systems. to learn more , browse the resources on this website or click below to see the benefits of ltsp . ltsp benefits » ltsp is used around the world ltsp is deployed in countries around the world. browse our success stories to learn more about deployments or share your story with the community . success stories » have any questions ? ltsp is backed and supported by an active community. technical resources include an active chatroom , wiki documentation and a mailing list . ltsp support » introduction to ltsp the linux terminal server project adds thin client support to linux servers. ltsp is a flexible , cost effective solution that is empowering schools , businesses , and organizations all over the world to easily install and deploy thin clients . new thin clients and legacy pcs alike can be used to browse the web , send e-mail , create documents , and run other desktop applications . ltsp not only improves total cost of ownership ( tco ) , but more importantly , provides increased value over traditional computing solutions . ltsp workstations can run applications from linux and windows servers. linux based thin clients have proven to be extremely reliable because tampering and viruses are virtually non-existent . ltsp news greek schools on ltsp world map thu , 31 jan 2013 12 : 21 : 00 gmt the greek primary and secondary schools that are using linux terminal servers have been added to the ltsp world map ! with over 180 different locations and ltsp setups , this is without a doubt one of the largest ltsp implementations in the world . read more public meetings fri , 11 jan 2013 15 : 56 : 00 gmt following a whole series of meetings for our new homepage and wiki , we decided to have public meetings from now on. to see when and where the next meeting is and what will be discussed , look at the upcoming meeting page . read more stackexchange site proposed thu , 18 oct 2012 11 : 43 : 00 gmt a stackexchange site has been proposed for ltsp. please take a look at the proposal and sign up. please vote for the questions you think should be answered there or add the missing questions . read more beta release thu , 05 jul 2012 11 : 00 : 00 gmt the new ltsp wiki launches in beta status today. this means we need your help in creating up-to-date content for the wiki. in april 2012 a team of people got together and began a project to refresh the ltsp website. since then we have created the ltspedia , a new and very informative wiki . read more ltsp is a registered trademark of disklessworkstations.com , llc copyright © 2014 ltsp.org for certified ltsp thin clients , and professional support , please visit disklessworkstations.com included js files
