welcome - willkommen iwr - rum co operation my rinet pentiumpro c luster on this pages you will find informations on the cooperation between the interdisciplinary center for scientific computing at the university of heidelberg ( iwr ) and the computing center of the university of mannheim ( rum ) . within this cooperation we provide interessted scientists of the iwr and the university of mannheim with a pentium pro cluster connected by fast myrinet communication hardware . sie finden hier informationen rund um die kooperation des interdisziplin ä ren zentrums f ü r wissenschaftliches rechnen an der universit ä t heidelberg ( iwr ) und dem rechenzentrum der universit ä t mannheim ( rum ) . im rahmen der kooperation stellen wir interessierten wissenschaftlern des iwr und der universit ä t mannheim ein pentium pro cluster mit myrinet kommunikation zur verf ü gung . news - aktuelles users guide - hinweise zur benutzung software , hardware , network - vernetzung performance current operating status - informationen zum laufenden betrieb online manuals - dokumentationen linux parallel computing page more links news - aktuelles since june 28 , 1999 there are 8 new nodes on comyc : node011-node018 . all are dual-pentium-iii running at 450 mhz . detailed descriptions will soon be available . as we are still installing and testing some stuff , you should not use these new nodes for production runs . since september 1998 the score system for myrinet is operational . for details see the user guide on comyc . the myrinet dual pentium pro cluster is in operation since end of october 1997. user operation is open since 1. december 1997 . due to configuration tasks we still expect a few interupts . seit dem 28. juni 1999 gibt es 8 weitere knoten an comyc : node011-node018 . es sind jeweils dual-pentium-iii mit 450 mhz . die genauere beschreibung wird demn ä chst erscheinen . zur zeit finden noch diverse installationsarbeiten statt , so dass die knoten noch nicht zur produktion genutzt werden koennen . seit september 1998 ist das score system f ä r myrinet in betrieb . benutzungshinweise finden sie im user guide on comyc . der myrinet pentium pro cluster comyc ist seit ende oktober 1997 in betrieb und seit dem 1. dezember 1997 f ü r den benutzerbetrieb freigegeben . aufgrund von weiteren systemarbeiten ist noch mit betriebsunterbrechungen zu rechnen . links here you find some links to other services and activities of the parallel computation group , the iwr , the computing center , the universities and the rest of the world . helics heidelberger linux cluster mit 512 amd athlon cpus ( bilder ) iwr heidelberg rum pentium farm : trumpf linux parallel computing page parallelrechner gruppe top500 , lists of the 500 fastest computers on the world ( since 1993 ) . supercomputer conference , mannheim . uni-rum-fuss heinz kredel , e-mail to created : fri jul 2 13 : 31 : 00 cest 1999 hhmts start last modified : fri jul 2 13 : 34 : 13 cest 2000 hhmts end
