university of california at irvine department of physics aeneas supercomputer array of enhanced nodes supercomputer uc irvine professors herbert hamber ( left ) and donald dabdub , are using the linux operating system in conjunction with 64 computers running in parallel . mark boster / los angeles times hardware the system is configured as one front-end system and 64 compute nodes . each of the 65 nodes in the system has : motherboard with intel 440lx chipset and 300 mhz pentium ii processor 128 mbyte 10-ns sdram memory 3.1 gbyte quantum eide u-dma disk 100 mbit/s ethernet adapter in addition , 2 100 mb/s full duplex 36-port fast ethernet switches with 6.6 gbit/s backplane and trunked gigabit ethernet fiber interconnect modules are used for communications between nodes . the machine has an aggregate peak performance of 19.5 gigaflops , with 8.3 gigabytes of memory and 221 gigabytes of disk space . aeneas was recently featured in an article in the business section of the los angeles times . see also the recent article by beth riley in the uc irvine granteater . a close-up picture of the original 16-node machine , as well as of the new 64-node configuration , can be found here . more technical details about the machine and its physics goals can be found here ( postscript document ) . software the machines run redhat linux . easy and dqs for job scheduling . mpi-ch , lam-mpi or pvm for message passing mpi is the de-facto standard for fast message passing in mpp systems . compilers for gnu c , c + + and fortran ( g77 ) absoft 's f77 and f90 compilers are also avaliable . highly optimized blas and fft 's for the intel pentium ii . a few limited benchmark results are available . for one real world application the system exceededed 1.3 gigaflops sustained performance on 16 nodes ( see text here ) and 4.1 gigaflops on 64 nodes . applications areas high energy physics simulations numerical quantum field theory high energy data reduction light scattering and surface physics modeling astrophysical simulations high temperature superconductivity plasma physics simulations applied mathematics research computational fluid dynamics climatic rsearch and atmospheric chemistry applications results ( not available yet - machine installed 10/24/97 ) further related web pages : detailed nasa parallel benchmarks comparisons list of related projects the beowulf project at nasa goddard the caltech parallel machine , naegling the beowulf tutorial page at caltech loki at lanl - commodity parallel computing the hyglac machine at jpl the megalon project at sandia national lab the lobos machine at nih bethesda the drexel beowulf computer the clemson beowulf cluster the whitney project at nas , nasa ames pentium cluster workshops mpi home page at argonne national lab a comprehensive list of linux applications linux software for scientists the linux documentation project , ldp list of all netlib libraries a fortran 90 tutorial from absoft faculty involved in the aeneas project : herbert w. hamber , physics hank sobel , physics alex maradudin , physics steve white,physics liu chen , physics steve barwick , physics gary chanan , physics mike holst , mathematics donald dabdub , mechanical & aerospace engineering feng liu , mechanical & aerospace engineering william sirignano , mechanical & aerospace engineering said elghobashi , mechanical & aerospace engineering hartmut luecke , molecular biology & biochemistry tom poulos , molecular biology & biochemistry virgil 's aeneid , describing the deeds of aeneas , can be found here . last update 12/14/2000 herbert w. hamber professor of physics hhamber @ uci.edu my home page can be found here . you are visitor number since 12/18/1997 . begin websidestory code - altering this code will cause termination of account end websidestory code
