the distributed asci supercomputer ( das ) a 200-node wide-area distributed system built out of four myrinet-based pentium pro clusters das ( distributed asci supercomputer ) is a wide-area distributed cluster designed by the advanced school for computing and imaging ( asci ) . das will be used for research on parallel and distributed computing by five dutch universities : vrije universiteit amsterdam university of amsterdam delft university of technology university of leiden university of utrecht das consists of four clusters , located at the first four universities . the first cluster ( at the vu ) contains 128 nodes , the other three clusters have 24 nodes ( 200 nodes in total ) . the system was built by parsytec and runs the bsd/os ( version 3.0 ) operating system from bsdi . the das system is funded by nwo ( the netherlands organization for scientific research ) , sion ( the foundation for computer science research in the netherlands ) and the participating universities . technical description : each node contains : a 200 mhz pentium pro ( siemens-nixdorf d983 motherboard ) 64 mb edo-ram in dimm modules ( 128 mb for the clusters in leiden and vu ) a 2.5 gbyte local disk a myrinet interface card a fast ethernet interface card the nodes within a local cluster are connected by a myrinet san network , which is used as high-speed interconnect , mapped in user-space . in addition , fast ethernet is used as os network ( file transport ) . the four local clusters are connected by wide-area atm networks , so the entire system can be used as a 200-node wide-area distributed cluster . more information about the wide-area networks is provided by the university of utrecht . the system was built by parsytec ( achen , germany ) , which has many years of experience in building large-scale parallel systems . parsytec used the same packaging techniques for das as for their cc series . the four clusters were delivered in may 1997 . below are several pictures of the original 64-node cluster of the vu ( which was installed 22 may 1997 ) . the pictures illustrate the integration of the different components , as designed by parsytec . the orignal 64-node cluster consisted of five cabinets . the leftmost and rightmost cabinet each contain 14 nodes , stored in five 19-inch racks ; the three middle cabinets each contain 12 nodes , stored in four racks . each 19-inch rack has ( at most ) three nodes . each cluster has a separate file-server and gateway-server . these machines are regular tower-pcs. the file server contains a 9 gbyte scsi ( ultra-wide , ultra-fast ) disk. the gateways will be used to interconnect the four clusters over a wide-area network . all connectors ( of the motherboard and pci cards ) are at the front of the machine , so they are easy to access . each node has a myrinet san cable ( the flat cable ) and a fast ethernet cable connected to it . each node also has keyboard and vga connectors , so it 's easy to attach a keyboard and monitor to any node . each cabinet contains a fast ethernet hub ( the black boxes in the space between the second and third rack from the bottom ) . the hubs are connected through a single switch. each cabinet also contains one or two dual 8-port myrinet switches ( the small white boxes ) . in total , there are 16 ( i.e. , eight dual ) 8-port switches. each switch is connected to four nodes and four other switches. the connection between the switches has a torus topology ( a 2d-grid with wrap-around ) . each computing node is packaged as a metal cassette , containing the motherboard ( lpx form factor ) and a riser card with three pci slots ( two of which are occupied by the myrinet and fast ethernet adaptors ) . the motherboard has rs232 , parallel , and usb interfaces and a graphics adapter ( cirrus 5446 ) . specially-designed foam is used by parsytec for integrating cooling channels . below is a picture of one node ( without the myrinet card ) : the 64-node cluster at the vu was upgraded to 128 nodes in may 1998 . below are pictures of the 128-node cluster . in september 1999 , the chemistry department added a 16-node pentium iii cluster , shown below larger pictures are here : 128-node cluster 128-node cluster original 64-node cluster original 64-node cluster with servers closeup of 64-node cluster closeup of two 19-inch racks one module front of a module 8-node cluster ( used at the vu from 21/2 to 23/5 1997 ) slides of a talk about das by andy tanenbaum can be found here . documentation for users of das can be found here . research projects using das vrije universiteit amsterdam university of amsterdam delft university of technology university of leiden university of utrecht this page is maintained by henri bal . last modified : 24 august 1998 .
