ad : freewheel subscribe adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech video shows quizzes computer electronics google_ad_section_start ( name = content ) home / tech / electronics / cameras & photography / camera basics how cameras work by tom harris ad : freewheel place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render page 1 introduction to how cameras work 2 cameras : focus 3 camera lenses 4 cameras : recording light dtl_id = // cool camera stuff image gallery a fully manual single-lens-reflex camera. see more pictures of cool camera stuff . photography is undoubtedly one of the most important inven ­ tions in history -- it has truly transformed how people conceive of the world. now we can " see " all sorts of things that are actually many miles -- and years -- away from us. photography lets us capture moments in time and preserve them for years to come. the basic technology that makes all of this possible is fairly simple. a still film camera is made of three basic elements : an optical element ( the lens ) , a chemical element ( the film ) and a mechanical element ( the camera body itself ) . as we 'll see , the only trick to photography is calibrating and combining these elements in such a way that they record a crisp , recognizable image. there are many different ways of bringing everything together. in this article , we 'll look at a manual single-lens-reflex ( slr ) camera. this is a camera where the photographer sees exactly the same image that is exposed to the film and can adjust everything by turning dials and clicking buttons. since it does n't need any electricity to take a picture , a manual slr camera provides an excellent illustration of the fundamental processes of photography. the optical component of the camera is the lens . at its simplest , a lens is just a curved piece of glass or plastic. its job is to take the beams of light bouncing off of an object and redirect them so they come together to form a real image -- an image that looks just like the scene in front of the lens. but how can a piece of glass do this ? the process is actually very simple. as light travels from one medium to another , it changes speed. light travels more quickly through air than it does through glass , so a lens slows it down. when light waves enter a piece of glass at an angle , one part of the wave will reach the glass before another and so will start slowing down first. this is something like pushing a shopping cart from pavement to grass , at an angle. the right wheel hits the grass first and so slows down while the left wheel is still on the pavement. because the left wheel is briefly moving more quickly than the right wheel , the shopping cart turns to the right as it moves onto the grass . the effect on light is the same -- as it enters the glass at an angle , it bends in one direction. it bends again when it exits the glass because parts of the light wave enter the air and speed up before other parts of the wave. in a standard converging , or convex lens , one or both sides of the glass curves out. this means rays of light passing through will bend toward the center of the lens on entry. in a double convex lens , such as a magnifying glass , the light will bend when it exits as well as when it enters . this effectively reverses the path of light from an object. a light source -- say a candle -- emits light in all directions. the rays of light all start at the same point -- the candle 's flame -- and then are constantly diverging. a converging lens takes those rays and redirects them so they are all converging back to one point. at the point where the rays converge , you get a real image of the candle. in the next couple of sections , we 'll look at some of the variables that determine how this real image is formed. ­ print cite this ! close please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this howstuffworks article : harris , tom. " how cameras work " 21 march 2001. howstuffworks.com. < http : //www.howstuffworks.com/camera.htm > 14 august 2014 . citation & date feedback page 1 introduction to how cameras work 2 cameras : focus 3 camera lenses 4 cameras : recording light 5 cameras : the right light 6 slr cameras vs. point-and-shoot 7 homemade cameras 8 lots more information place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render more to explore popular tech topics mac , eniac or univac : the computer history quiz top 5 myths about the internet how to connect your computer to your tv how capacitors work how cloud computing works take a look at computer videos you might also like how autofocus cameras work you did n't really need to miss that amazing zebra shot during your african safari. here 's a nifty gadget that would have helped – an autofocusing camera. in this article , we ’ ll explain how the two types of autofocus features work , plus we ’ ll give you tips on how to use them . how aperture works in consumer optical devices like cameras and telescopes , aperture is an incredibly important concept. but what is it , exactly ? read on to learn more about aperture and its influence on photography and astronomy . popular articles 5 portrait photography tips how do instant cameras work ? 5 film noir photography tips google_ad_section_end ( name = content ) ad : freewheel ad : freewheel most popular most watched most popular 10 sci-fi gadgets we wish actually existed how to connect your computer to your tv 10 futurist predictions in technology clicking and picking : the 'minecraft ' quiz 10 weird patents that google owns most watched computer virus videos home network videos ultimate computer hardware videos digital cameras it 's all geek to me do n't miss stuff you should know : demystifying your world stuff mom never told you : all things women and gender stuff you missed in history class : fact or fiction ? ad : freewheel check out our podcasts ad : freewheel howstuffworks newsletter the latest and greatest subscribe howstuffworks adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech more stuff blogs hsw tools rss maps podcasts quizzes newsletters video hsw brazil hsw china stuff websites brainstuff carstuff fw : thinking stuff mom never told you stuff of genius stuff they do n't want you to know stuff to blow your mind stuff you missed in history class stuff you should know customer service advertising contact us help corporate about us careers @ hsw privacy policy visitor agreement take us with you follow us copyright © 1998-2014 howstuffworks , a division of infospace llc google tag manager end google tag manager
