< ! [ endif ] forums unified view mirrorless digital cameras all forums modern film cameras accessories nature alternative cameras & lenses new user introductions b&w - film & processing news b&w - printing & finishing nikon beginner questions no words business off-topic calendar events olympus and four-thirds canon eos pentax canon fd philosophy of photography casual photo conversations phone & mobile photography classic manual cameras photo critique contests & opportunities photo of the week forum deals & discounts photo.net site help digital darkroom portraits & fashion education sony/minolta slr film & processing sports large format street & documentary leica & rangefinders travel lighting video medium format website creation member 's photo news wedding & social minox test postings equipment equipment main page classifieds gizmos & gadgets column canon nikon olympus pentax sony fujifilm panasonic tamron sigma leica digital camera bodies lenses flashes printers 35mm medium format large format software all products & articles gallery photo gallery main browse gallery search by caption search by photo tags random image generator top-rated photos recently liked images top portfolios top photographers top new photos photos of the week critique forum presentations editors ' picks featured members rate photos photo contests sharing my workspace my portfolio critique forum request a critique rate photos community forums community news blog photo.net email newsletters photo.net calendar featured member photo contests classifieds member recommendations member directory who 's online ? register subscribe support photo.net learning digital darkroom wedding photography photography technique photo equipment guides business of photography travel photography interviews and inspiration film photography resources basic photo tips lighting tutorials all learn photography articles reviews by date by brand by category photo.net recommended editors ' choice - lenses editors ' choice - bodies store ★ canvas prints main page camera lenses & filters digital cameras accessories & more blog sign in register a site for photographers by photographers search all of photo.net photo captions photo tags equipment store featured equipment deals popular articles popular articles ten steps to get creative & authentic family photographs photographer stacy bostrom shares ten tips to make your family photography more creative by capturing the beautiful imperfection of life . king sized portrait lighting : going big digital photography developing ( video tutorial ) nikon announces the df camera / popular articles featured equipment articles latest equipment articles sun position tracking apps these 5 apps , ranging in price from free to $ 8.99 , are our top picks for tracking sun ( and moon ) light. also ranging in complexity , some help you keep tabs on the ideal lighting of the day while.. . canon powershot g1 x mark ii and powershot sx700 hs review and comparison tamron 16-300mm f/3.5-6.3 di ii vc pzd macro zoom lens review 2014 father 's day gift guide / featured equipment articles featured learning articles latest learning articles the august monthly project for august 's monthly project , tom persinger is joining us again to explore the various ways of using texture to evoke tactile qualities in our photographs. please add your photo to the thread and.. . creating a lightroom slideshow ( video tutorial ) basic image development in lightroom : special tools ( video tutorial ) basic image development in lightroom : color editing ( video tutorial ) / featured learning articles photo.net camera equipment section featured article : sigma 18-35mm f1.8 dc hsm lens review sigma 18-35mm f1.8 : read why reviewer rebekah gough thinks this revolutionary lens is a " a game changer. " read more » featured article : how to choose your next photo laptop if you are in the market for a new laptop ( a.k.a. notebook ) computer , you are not alone. more photographers than ever are choosing laptops in addition to a desktop computer , or making a laptop computer their primary computer. a few reasons for making a laptop a primary computer are as.. . read more » featured article : canon ef-s 18-135/3.5-5.6 is lens review photo.net reviews the canon ef-s 18-135/3.5-5.6 is lens. this is a wide to telephoto zoom good for landscapes , portraits , sports and wildlife. see how this lens stands up in image quality and stabilization tests . read more » featured article : guide to canon eos speedlite system canon eos flash system. speedlites read more » featured article : tamron 70-300/4-5.6 di vc usd lens review read a thorough review on tamron 's new 70-300mm f/4-5.6 lens complete with test images for sharpness , barrel distortion , pincussion distortion , etc . read more » featured article : canon ef 70-200/2.8l is ii usm review bob atkins reviews the canon ef 70-200/2.8l is ii usm zoom lens read more » featured article : nikon 80-400mm f/4.5-5.6g ed vr lens review shun cheung reviews the nikon 80-400mm f/4.5-5.6g ed vr lens , updated from the 80-400mm f/4.5-5.6d . read more » featured article : tamron 17-50mm f/2.8 di ii vc review read a full review of the tamron 17-55/2.8 lens from photo.net. bob atkins takes a close look at the tamron 17-55 lens and does some comparison tests. includes example images . read more » featured article : canon ef 135mm f2.0l usm review bob atkins reviews the ef 135mm f/2l lens. though this lens has been around for quite some time , bob tells us why it is a good value lens to add to your camera bag . read more » new releases featured products canon eos 6d reader comments | canon eos 6d review | compare prices canon powershot sx50 hs reader comments | canon powershot sx50 hs review | compare prices canon rebel sl1/eos 100d with 18-55 kit lens reader comments | canon-rebel-sl1 review | compare prices canon eos 70d reader comments | compare prices canon ef 135mm f/2l usm reader comments | canon ef 135mm f/2l usm review | compare prices nikon d600 dslr body reader comments | nikon d600 body review | compare prices nikon d7100 reader comments | nikon_d7100 review | compare prices nikon d5200 black slr digital camera body only reader comments | compare prices new ! nikon 18-140mm f/3.5-5.6g ed vr af-s dx nikkor zoom lens reader comments | compare prices olympus om-d e-m5 reader comments | olympus e-m5 review | compare prices olympus m.zuiko digital ed 75mm f1.8 reader comments | olympus 75/1.8 ed review | compare prices sigma 30mm f2.8 dn for micro four-thirds reader comments | compare prices sigma 35mm/f1.4 reader comments | sigma_35mm_f14 review | compare prices new ! sigma 18-35mm f/1.8 dc hsm reader comments | sigma_18-35_1.8 review | compare prices sigma 18-200mm f/3.5-6.3 for nikon reader comments | compare prices sigma 120-400mm f/4.5-5.6 dg apo os for nikon reader comments | compare prices sigma 30mm f/1.4 ex dc for nikon reader comments | compare prices sony nex-3n reader comments | sony_nex_3n review | compare prices sony nex 7 reader comments | compare prices tamron 18-270 vc for nikon reader comments | tamron 18-270 vc for nikon review | compare prices tamron 70-300mm f/4-5.6 di vc for nikon reader comments | tamron 70-300mm f/4-5.6 di vc for nikon review | compare prices tamron sp 70-200mm f/2.8 di vc usd reader comments | tamron 70-200/2.8 vc usd review | compare prices tamron sp 90mm f2.8 di vc usd macro reader comments | tamron sp 90mm f2.8 di vc usd macro review | compare prices fujifilm finepix x100 reader comments | compare prices fujifilm x-m1 compact system 16mp digital camera kit with 16-50mm lens and 3-inch lcd screen ( black ) reader comments | compare prices fujifilm x20 silver digital camera reader comments | compare prices new release date 10/16 ! fujinon xf23mm reader comments | compare prices wd my passport ultra reader comments | wd_passport_ultra review | compare prices gopro hero3 : black edition reader comments | compare prices browse equipment by manufacturer canon nikon olympus pentax leica sigma sony fujifilm tamron epson browse equipment by category digital camera bodies lenses flashes printers tripods bags film filters video software our most popular photography equipment articles building a digital slr system ( our most popular ) choosing a digital slr camera buyer 's guide : entry-level dslrs canon digital slr system overview nikon digital slr system overview sony digital slr system overview pentax digital slr system overview olympus digital slr system overview choosing a large photo-quality inkjet printer choosing a small photo-quality inkjet printer film camera resources a basic beginner 's guide to digital camera technology the best compact digital cameras choosing a digital camera ( philip greenspun ) choosing a digital camera ( bas scheffers ) effects of sensor size on performance photoshop color to b&w conversions what type of camera should i buy ? what camera is best suited for me ? where to buy a camera archives archives main page contax leica minolta tamron digital 35mm medium format large format enter to win one of 16 fantastic prizes by joining the mpix email list ! 2 x assembled album - 10x10 " leather album with 40 pages of mounted professional photographic prints. retail price : $ 265.00 each 2 x gallery wrap - canvas print wrapped around 24x36 " wooden stretcher frame. retail price : $ 170.00 each 2 x framed print - professional print in 20x30 handmade frame. retail price : $ 170.00 each 2 x standout - professional print mounted on 1.5 " 20x30 " gatorfoam board with black trim. retail price : $ 110.00 each 2 x wall cling - life-sized wall cling up to 72 " tall. retail price : $ 90.00 each 2 x custom hard cover book - 8.5x11 " photographic book with custom cover. retail price : $ 50.00 each 2 x large prints - 24x36 " large e-surface prints with matte finish. retail price : $ 45.00 each 2 x metallic prints - 20x30 " metallic prints with pearlescent finish. retail price : $ 32.00 each total prizes value : over $ 1,800.00 this content is available to all registered photo.net users . new photo.net users , click here to register for a chance to win one of these 16 mpix prizes . existing photo.net users , click here to signup for the contest through your workspace page . terms & conditions valid email address is required as winners will be notified only via email and response is required for verification. drawing will be open to all contest subscribers who meet eligibility requirements. mpix does not ship prizes outside the united states. winners will be notified by email and response is required for verification. if winner is not verified within 14 days , prize is forfeited and a new replacement winner will be drawn. replacement winners will be chosen no more than two times for each prize. upon agreement and verification , winner 's name will be posted on our website in promotional material such as ( but not limited to ) contest prize winners . general rules - you may win only 1 ( one ) mpix contest every 12 months. prizes can not be substituted or upgraded ( except among choices advertised in contest ) . in the event that a prize item becomes unavailable , mpix reserves the right to substitute an equivalent prize in the same category. mpix reserves the right to discontinue contests or modify these rules at any time. mpix can not be responsible for emails that do not reach winners due to spam filtering or other outside problems. your privacy is important and mpix adheres to a strict privacy policy. employees of mpix , its suppliers , dealers and their immediate families are not eligible close enter to win a new tamron 18-270mm di ii vc pzd 15x all-in-one-zoom lens for canon , nikon and sony dslrs ! tamron new 18-270mm di ii vc pzd 15x all-in-one zoom lens for canon , nikon and sony aps-c dslrs the world 's most compact and lightweight 15x zoom lens is now 24 % smaller than the previous model ! features tamron 's new vibration compensation ( vc ) system for blur-free hand-held shots and new piezo drive ( pzd ) for fast and quiet autofocus . ( winner may choose a 28-300mm vc lens in case of full-frame dslr or 18-200mm lens in case of pentax dslr ) value $ 649 this content is available to all registered photo.net users . new photo.net users , click here to register for a chance to win . existing photo.net users , click here to signup for the contest through your workspace page . terms & conditions a valid e-mail address is required as winners will be notified only via e-mail and a response is required for verification. drawing will be open to all contest subscribers who meet eligibility requirements. tamron does not ship prizes outside the united states. winners will be notified by e-mail and response is required for verification. if winner is not verified within 14 days , prize is forfeited and a new replacement winner will be drawn. replacement winners will be chosen no more than two times for each prize. upon agreement and verification , winner ’ s name will be posted on our website in promotional material such as ( but not limited to ) contest prize winners . general rules — you may win only 1 ( one ) tamron contest every 12 months. tamron can not be responsible for emails that do not reach winners due to spam filtering or other outside problems. employees of tamron and immediate families are not eligible . close closes pnet-content div © 1996-2014 namemedia , inc. and contributors. contributed content used with permission . sign in | site map | article archive | author index | about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us | advertise | careers | terms of use | privacy end footer close wrapper compete crosspoint tag for photo.net
