orphancameras.com / butkus.us camera manual library 1997 - 2014 www.butkus.org | historical postcards | information shim row , height 1 . row 2 row 3 site navigation ------------------- agfa alpa ansco argus beseler/topcon bronica canon chinon contax cosina exakta fujica fujica prof . graflex hasselblad kodak konica kowa large format leica/leicaflex mamiya minolta minox miranda nikon olympus pentax pentax prof . petri polaroid praktica ricoh rollei rolleiflex russian sears sigma stereo cameras vivitar voigtlander yashica zeiss ikon zorki/zenth professional ------------------- help with opening / printing these pdf files recommended links internal links camera images why i do this problems printing privacy policy donation policy row 4 feb 1 , 2013 i have moved the pdf files to another hosting company. the new site has mirrored servers in different locations , should one go down . powered by : godaddy.com ( butkus.org ) , 1and1.com ( pdf files - new site ) 1and1.com ( butkus.us - duplicate manual listing , try it ) - - still here and still popular - - click here to see how this started and why home page - updated july 2014 - - listing of pdf manuals by date posted - - -- for cameras past their " sell by " date ! - welcome to my research library of 5500 + instruction / user manuals for chinon , ricoh , sears , fujica , konica , kodak , k-mount , universal mount , cosina , yashica , zenith , praktica and other " orphan " cameras as well as manuals for non-brand name cameras electronic flashes and light meters find all the information on your camera model on just my site . . . . . . ! ! ! google search only search www.butkus.org end google search use the above " google " search , to find all the items in " butkus.org " only thieves - manualsink.com manualsrus.com and manuals4all.com both web sites are gone ! this is an extension of my other home page that you can find at www.butkus.org > - - no advertisements ! - - < your donations support these website pages , camera manual purchases and equipment needed to create this site these pages are dedicated to full text chinon , ricoh , sears , kodak , cosina , fujica , miranda , ansco , agfa , konica cameras , flashes , winders , data backs , manuals and all the images from these instruction manuals . i have no connection to chinon , ricoh or any camera company. this library of information is only here for your information . these web site contains no information on digital cameras i do keep many digital camera manuals ! this site 's 24,000 + files on two sites are kept up-to-date with helixis software - site publisher other places to check ( these are mostly " links " ) what 's my old camera worth - not much ! lists of manuals | list of manuals by date i posted them ys camera mount adaptall / adaptall ii instructions - remember these ? into film.. check out this film site , lots of information . list of other free on-line camera manuals search engines - try here if i do n't have it other information about k-mount cameras the ultimate k-mount camera list ( list from former web site , information was not collected by me ) information on k-mount lens mounts more info on all types of camera mounts lens mount photos robert monaghan 's page of 2 1/4 and 35mm info - some links are not working right as of 2007 waybackmachine link to his page . chinon replacement battery list lots of info on camera batteries and replacement sources - not my site duracell battery chart sites about camera battery replacements ( all types of cameras & batteries ) battery replacement for mercury px13 , px625 , mr9 and px27 : problems and solutions ( updated 2011 , not my article ) other chinon sites ( ha ! ) , ricoh , pentax and other places of interest like infrared photography short list of camera stores camera in need of repair ? options available by clicking here lens test ( 16mm russian and others ) like speed ? , how about these " fast lenses " two touch tele/macro lens information all the manuals i own are listed. if no link appears , i have yet to scanned them . ask about any un-scanned manuals. if i can locate the manual ( and i have boxes of them ) i may be able to scan it in a few days . any links outside of my site are noted . if you find these manuals useful , how about a donation of $ 3 to : m. butkus , 29 lake ave. , high bridge , nj 08829-1701 ( cash/check/m.o. ) or use your pay pal account. use the icon on the specific manual page or go to the paypal verified link below or at the very bottom of this page. this will allow me to buy new manuals , and pay to host this ad free site . it 'll make you feel better , wo n't it ? address accurate as of jan. , 2013 . donation policy begin official paypal seal end official paypal seal click here for : camera facts /p.r. sheets , booklets , antique photo chemistry , antique lenses , antique photo developing , photo guides and any other non-instruction manual click here for : photo catalogs - sears , montgomery ward , peerless and other cameras store catalogs from 1900 to '80s click here for listing of all other non-brand name cameras from a to z -- click here for electronic flashes and light meters -- thanks for coming , be sure to email me at m. butkus , 29 lake ave. , high bridge , n.j. , usa , 08829-1701 sorry.. i do not take phone calls.. only communications via e-mail donation policy paypal name is who out there is ( outside of u.s. ) seeking information on film cameras. here 's a list of non us sites that has found my site useful . row 5 row 6 row 7 free web template by hoover web design
