ad : freewheel subscribe adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech video shows quizzes computer electronics google_ad_section_start ( name = content ) home / tech / electronics / cameras & photography / camera basics how autofocus cameras work by gary brown ad : freewheel place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render page 1 introduction to how autofocus cameras work 2 what is autofocus ? 3 active autofocus 4 passive autofocus dtl_id = // cool camera stuff image gallery ever wonder how your camera knows what you 're looking at ? see more cool camera stuff pictures . panasonic and matsushita electric corporation of america ­ autofocus is that great time saver that is found in one form or another on most cameras today. in most cases , it helps improve the quality of the pictures we take. in this article , you will learn about the two most common forms of autofocus , and find out how to determine which type of autofocus your camera uses. you will also learn some valuable tips about preventing the main causes of blurred pictures when using an autofocus camera . launch video print cite this ! close please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this howstuffworks article : brown , gary. " how autofocus cameras work " 01 april 2000. howstuffworks.com. < http : //www.howstuffworks.com/autofocus.htm > 14 august 2014 . citation & date feedback page 1 introduction to how autofocus cameras work 2 what is autofocus ? 3 active autofocus 4 passive autofocus 5 how do i know which autofocus system my camera has ? 6 is autofocus always accurate and faster ? 7 focus lock : the key to great autofocus pictures 8 when should i use manual focus ? place this tag where you want the + 1 button to render more to explore popular tech topics mac , eniac or univac : the computer history quiz top 5 myths about the internet how to connect your computer to your tv how capacitors work how cloud computing works take a look at computer videos you might also like how autofocus cameras work you did n't really need to miss that amazing zebra shot during your african safari. here 's a nifty gadget that would have helped – an autofocusing camera. in this article , we ’ ll explain how the two types of autofocus features work , plus we ’ ll give you tips on how to use them . how aperture works in consumer optical devices like cameras and telescopes , aperture is an incredibly important concept. but what is it , exactly ? read on to learn more about aperture and its influence on photography and astronomy . popular articles 5 portrait photography tips how do instant cameras work ? 5 film noir photography tips google_ad_section_end ( name = content ) ad : freewheel ad : freewheel most popular most watched most popular 10 sci-fi gadgets we wish actually existed how to connect your computer to your tv 10 futurist predictions in technology clicking and picking : the 'minecraft ' quiz 10 weird patents that google owns most watched computer virus videos home network videos ultimate computer hardware videos digital cameras it 's all geek to me do n't miss stuff you should know : demystifying your world stuff mom never told you : all things women and gender stuff you missed in history class : fact or fiction ? ad : freewheel check out our podcasts ad : freewheel howstuffworks newsletter the latest and greatest subscribe howstuffworks adventure animals auto culture entertainment health home & garden lifestyle money science tech more stuff blogs hsw tools rss maps podcasts quizzes newsletters video hsw brazil hsw china stuff websites brainstuff carstuff fw : thinking stuff mom never told you stuff of genius stuff they do n't want you to know stuff to blow your mind stuff you missed in history class stuff you should know customer service advertising contact us help corporate about us careers @ hsw privacy policy visitor agreement take us with you follow us copyright © 1998-2014 howstuffworks , a division of infospace llc google tag manager end google tag manager
