loading .. . sorry , an error occurred while loading the content . meta /meta home mail news sports finance weather games groups answers screen flickr mobile more celebrity movies music tv health beauty food tech shopping travel autos homes yahoo ! groups search groups search web sign in mail help account info help suggestions yahoo home contextual_shortcuts /contextual_shortcuts property : groups | languagetag : en-us | status : active | spaceid : 96584352 | cobrand : standard | markup : empty empty alert template : form-1 /template : form-1 template : form-2 /template : form-2 /alert welcome to yahoo groups . an extension to your real life group of friends , interests and communities . what 's new : see video navbar sign in or start a new group you must be a registered yahoo user to start a group. sign up end of navbar get the app browse groups terms privacy guidelines feedback help blog fujica 35mm slrs - for screw mount and bayonet fujica users public group , 591 members conversations photos files attachments events polls links database about more help attachments events polls links database about edit membership back about group join group no activity in last 7 days group description this club is for users of the fujica st and az screw-mount cameras , as well as the stx and ax x-mount bayonet cameras . group information members : 591 category : camera makes and models founded : sep 3 , 2001 language : english group settings this is a public group . attachments are not permitted . members can hide email address . listed in yahoo groups directory . membership does not require approval . messages are not moderated . all members can post messages . group email addresses post message : fujica35mmslrs @ yahoogroups.com subscribe : fujica35mmslrs-subscribe @ yahoogroups.com unsubscribe : fujica35mmslrs-unsubscribe @ yahoogroups.com list owner : fujica35mmslrs-owner @ yahoogroups.com message history spaceid = 35605261 loc = fsrvy noad fac-gd2-noad gd2-status-2 qyz cms_none_selected,,98.139.227.232 ; ; fsrvy ; 35605261 ; 2 ;
