sponsors : news call topics speakers program tutorials workshops committee submission dates location fee registration your account accommodation gallery ppam 1999 ppam 2001 ppam 2003 ppam 2005 ppam 2007 ppam 2009 ppam 2011 ppam 2015 proceedings of ppam 2013 will be released as lncs 8384 and lncs 8385 the first volume will contain : main track minisymposium on gpu computing special session on multicore systems workshop on numerical algorithms on hybrid architectures workshop on models , algorithms , and methodologies for hierarchical parallelism in new hpc systems workshop on power and energy aspects of computation the second volume will contain : workshop on scheduling for parallel computing ( spc 2013 ) the 5th workshop on language-based parallel programming models ( wlpp 2013 ) the 4th workshop on performance evaluation of parallel applications on large-scale systems workshop on parallel computational biology ( pbc 2013 ) minisymposium on applications of parallel computation in industry and engineering minisymposium on hpc applications in physical sciences minisymposium on applied high performance numerical algorithms in pdes minisymposium on high performance computing interval methods workshop on complex collective systems author 's instructions for accepted contributions ! ! author 's instructions for accepted contributions are already available ! ! ! presentations and tutorials are available the presentations of jack dongarra and fran berman are already available ! ! ! the tutorials on gpu computing and history of central result of linear algebra ale also available ! ! ! invitation to a concert of classical music dear participants of ppam 2013 conference , i have pleasure to invite you to a concert of classical music which will take place at the polish-japanese school of information technology on sunday , sept. 8 , at 19 : 30 . you will have the opportunity to listen to a string quartet " scherzo " . after the concert we will continue our evening events at the welcome reception . looking forward to seeing you at the conference ! ! ! best regards , roman wyrzykowski ppam conference chair ppam 2013 in conference4me the conference4me smartphone app provides you with the most comfortable tool for planning your participation in ppam 2013 . browse the complete programme directly from your phone or tablet and create your very own agenda on the fly. the app is available for android and apple ios devices . to download mobile app , please visit http : //conference4me.psnc.pl or type conference4me in google play or itunes app store . book of abstracts book of abstracts is available ! ! ! instructions for speakers and session chairs instructions for speakers and session chairs are available ! ! ! preliminary program the preliminary program of ppam 2013 is available ! ! ! the registration is open ! please book your hotel rooms since ppam 2013 organizers have agreement with hotels till 15.07.2013 only . deadline extended deadline extended - may 6 , 2013 ! ! ! for workshops and minisymposia further extensions are provided - see webpages ! ! ! call for papers ppam 2013 10th international conference on parallel processing and applied mathematics warsaw , poland , september 8-11 , 2013 http : //ppam.pl the ppam 2013 conference , tenth in a series , will cover topics in parallel and distributed processing , including theory and applications , as well as applied mathematics. the focus will be on models , algorithms , and software tools which facilitate efficient and convenient utilization of modern parallel and distributed computing architectures , as well as on large-scale applications . ppam is a biennial conference started in 1994 , with the proceedings published by springer in the lecture notes in computer sciences series. the ppam proccedings are indexed in main databases such as web of science , sciverse scopus , and dblp . in particular , all the proceedings of ppam conferences published in the springer lncs series , including the last ppam 2011 conference , are covered by the web of science in the conference proceedings citation index-science database . the jubilee ppam conference will take place in warsaw , the capital and largest city of poland , a major international tourist destination and an important economic hub in central europe , known as the " phoenix city " because it has survived many wars throughout its history . the ppam 2013 conference is organized by czestochowa university of technology : under the patronage of the committee of informatics of the polish academy of sciences in-cooperation with polish-japanese institute of information technology read more .. . designed by marcin wo ź niak & piotr dzier ż ak
