international conference on parallel architectures and compilation techniques october 12-16 , 1999 newport beach , california usa pact99 sponsored by ieee computer society and ifip working group 10.3 keynote speaker : marc tremblay on the majc architecture on-line registration final program at a glance panel discussion topic will be architecture research in the industry and the panelists are : greg astfalk , chief scientist , hp kemal ebcioglu ( chair ) , ibm t.j. watson research center jesse fang , microarchitecture research lab , intel martin hopkins , ibm fellow , ibm t.j. watson research center yale patt , professor of electrical and computer engineering , university of texas , austin we will have the following two tutorials ia-64 architecture and technology by jesse fang , thomas willis , and wei li , intel corporation compression in multimedia by shahram latifi , university of nevada , las vegas , and nader bagherzadeh , university of california , irvine final program for workshop on binary translation we have travel grants for students and junior faculty conference objectives organizing committee marriott hotel and tennis club : special rate of $ 124/day for pact'99 attendees. to receive this special rate , be sure to mention you are with pact'99 ! please make reservation by september 21 to receive this special rate . miscellaneous information : the conference will be held at the marriott hotel and tennis club located at fashion island. if you are coming to the conference via the orange county airport , there is a free shuttle service to the hotel every hour. if you are coming to the conference via the los angeles international airport , you can take the supershuttle ( ubiquitous blue van ) to the hotel. approximate cost is $ 30 . atrium hotel , close to the airport 1-800-854-3012 1-949-833-2770 corporate rate is $ 107 including breakfast for aaa members : $ 94 weekdays , $ 75 weekends please mention pact99 conference shuttle to fashion island travellodge hacienda 1-949-650-2999 $ 59 per night * * * no shuttle service to newport beach for any other information , please try the links to the city of newport beach and the marriott hotel . they have many helpful information ! we have the following mirror sites : asia europe australia if you were looking for parallel computing technologies conference , please go to ( pact-99 ) if you would like information on previous pact conferences , please go to previous pact conferences call for participation for workshop on binary translation call for papers for workshop on reconfigurable computing ( worc'99 ) conference objectives the purpose of this working conference , the eighth in the series , is to provide an open forum for the parallel architecture and compiler research communities to debate key issues of common interest , and to further the state of the art in parallel architectures and compilers. we invite researchers with interest in both conventional and non-conventional approaches in parallel processing ( mpp , smp , clustered-smp , data-flow , ilp , multi-threading , and optical ) to participate. we solicit papers which contain significant novel ideas and research results. conference topics include ( but are not limited to ) : parallel architectures and computation models ; theoretical foundations of parallel architectures ; parallel processing in the context of java ( java multi-threading , java processors with parallelism , novel compiler optimizations for java , etc. ) ; application-specific parallel architectures ; compilers for parallel computer systems ; compiler/hardware support for hiding memory latencies ; advances in architectures and compilers for ilp ( superscalar , vliw , multiscalar , etc. ) : new parallel programming languages and paradigms ; application studies that demonstrate the performance of parallel computer systems ; reconfigurable architectures ; organizing committee general chair nader bagherzadeh , university of california , irvine program committee co-chairs paraskevas evripidou , university of cyprus gabby silberman , ibm publicity chair chinhyun ( thomas ) kim , intel corporation chinhyun.t.kim @ intel.com regional publicity co-chairs asia : kazuki joe , wakayama university australia : andrew wendelborn , university of adelaide europe : christophe cerin , universite de picardie jules verne program committee web master marios dikaiakos , university of cyprus local arrangements chair simin shoari , university of california , irvine publication chair sally mckee , university of utah finance chair maggie johnson , ieee computer society tutorial chair lynn choi , university of california , irvine workshops chair walid najjar , colorado state university steering committee jean-luc gaudiot , university of southern california ( chair ) michel cosnard , loria , france kemal ebcioglu , ibm john feo , tera computers ulrich finger , enst , france guang gao , university of delaware alex nicolau , university of california , irvine last modified by chinhyun ( thomas ) kim on august 5 , 1999 .
