high-performance computing and networking 2000 &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp hpcn europe 2000 the 8th international conference on high performance computing and networking europe . may 8 - 10 , 2000 amsterdam , the netherlands best paper and poster awards it is with much pleasure that we announce the 8th event of the highly successful international conference on high performance computing and networking europe. similar to the previous years , hpcn europe 2000 will consist of focussed workshops and a scientific conference , covering the field of hpcn from the ( industrial ) end-user applications to new scientific results in computational science and computer science. this year however , the scope of the conference is further expanded with an additional theme to emphasize the information management aspects , and the importance of the web-based cooperative application infrastructures. with this call we invite you to submit a paper for the conference and to participate in this event. conference tracks web-based cooperative applications including distributed/federated information and knowledge management , information brokerage , virtual enterprises , clearing houses , electronic business , cooperation coordination , tele-work , etc . industrial and end-user applications of hpcn including the web applications , medical applications , data mining , automotive and aerospace , chemical , climate modeling , distributed manufacturing , virtual reality , etc . computational science including new numerical and non-numerical techniques for parallelization , metacomputing , load balancing , problem solving environments , etc . computer science research in hpcn including tools runtime support , compiler technology , programming environments , architecture simulations , etc . workshops half a day workshop on cluster computing - organized by mark baker half a day workshop on eurostore - organized by fabrizio gagliardi half a day workshop on java in high performance computing - organized by vladimir s. getov half a day workshop on lawra - organized by jerzy wasniewski one day workshop on virtual laboratory - organized by l.o. hertzberger associated events half a day associated event on modelling and simulation of morphogenesis and pattern formation in biology - organized by jaap kaandorp half a day associated event on ncf - organized by jaap hollenberg half a day associated event on systems and datamining - organized by j.w. tellegen one day associated event on mpr - organized by job kleuver you are all invited to participate in this event. important dates 08-10 may 2000 - hpcn europe 2000 event awards the best papers and one best poster were designated for the hpcn 2000 conference. at the conference dinner following awards were handled to the paper presenters : best papers first the problems and the solutions of the metacomputing experiment in sc99 pickles , s. ; costen , f. ; brooke , j. ; gabriel , e. ; m ü ller , m. ; resch , m. and ord , s . award : compaq aero 1500 palmtop second application of the jacobi-davidson method to spectral calculations in magnetohydrodynamics beli ë n , a.j.c ; van der holst , b. ; nool , m. ; van der ploeg , a. and goedbloed,j.p . award : certificate for a book of choice from elsevier-cambridge . third developing a distributed scalable enterprise javabean server guo , y. and wendel , p . award : one year subscription to future generation computer systems ( fgcs ) best poster script wrapper for software integration systems fischer , j. ; schreiber , a. and strietzel , m . last updated on may 10th , 2000 created by : anne frenkel , joost bijlmer e-mail : annef @ wins.uva.nl , joostb @ wins.uva.nl
