high-performance computing and networking '99 the premier conference and exhibition in the field of advanced solutions for industry , research and education based on workstations , servers , high-performance systems and networking technology . rai conference center amsterdam 12-13-14 april 1999 8.30-18.00 hours registration starts at 8.00 on april 12 , 1999 hpcn europe '99 the 7th international conference on high performance computing and networking europe . april 12 - 14 , 1999 amsterdam , the netherlands it is with much pleasure that we announce the seventh edition of the highly succesful high performance computing and networking europe event . like previous years , hpcn europe '99 will combine focussed workshops and a scientific conference , covering the field of hpcn from ( industrial ) end-user applications to new scientific results in computational science and computer science. with this call we invite you to submit a paper for the conference , to propose a workshop , and to participate in the event . the conference has three complementary themes ( industrial ) end-user applications of hpcn e.g. web applications , medical applications , data mining , automotive and aerospace , chemical , climate modelling , etc . computational science e.g. new numerical and non-numerical techniques for parallelization , metacomputing , load balancing , problem solving environments , etc . computer science research in hpcn e.g. tools , runtime support , compiler technology , programming environments , architecture simulations , etc . you are all invited to participate in this event . important dates january 15 , 1999 : note of acceptance february 15 , 1999 : deadline for final paper april 12 - 14 , 1999 : hpcn europe '99 on behalf of the hpcn europe '99 organisation , prof. dr. l.o. hertzberger ( overall event chair ) prof. dr. p.m.a. sloot ( chair scientific organising committee ) dr. a.g. hoekstra ( scientific organising committee ) dr. m. bubak ( scientific organising committee ) dr. vaidy sunderam ( scientific organising committee )
