begin page-specific content what 's new sunrise , lower falls , tahquamenon , july 2007 i who have copied down this story or more accurately fantasy do not credit the details of the story or fantasy. some things in it are devilish lies and some poetical figments. some seem possible and others not. some are for the enjoyment of idiots . irish scribe , eighth century-from the tain bo cuailgne october 2008 saw this sign a month or so ago . september 2008 september 8 , 2008 the mcallaster house is for sale . officially , it goes on the market october 1st . september 1 , 2008 purely by chance i found myself on the waterfront of traverse city during a trip to sleeping bear natonal lakeshore. moored there was my unidentified vessel , which proved to be the welcome . june and july 2008 july 9 just two days after the end of the michigan training institute , i was in iowa responding to the flooding. i have n't written anything about it yet , but i do have some of my pictures loaded . link of the moment i wander the web. i wander it a lot. link of the moment showcases websites i find particularly interesting , well designed , or just plain beautiful . jamie white , the square rigger jo grabowski links of moments past off the radar things that used to be on this page can be found in the archives : 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 alarums and excursions be forewarned , there is a fair bit of nudity in the photography section of this site and scattered about elsewhere-if that offends you , or you are not legally allowed to view such , go elsewhere . unless stated otherwise , the opinions expressed in these pages is mine , and probably mine alone. you mileage may vary. i could n't pay my employer enough to take responsibility for me. if following any of the advice ( or links ) presented here causes irreparable damage to you or anyone else-including but not limited to losing all your hair , assorted appendages , your life , or spending the rest of your life sitting in a corner and drooling- tough ! i will not be held responsible. you have been warned ! the author/webmaster signature file , server-side include main page all images and text copyright dale austin , 1962-2008 end page-specific content begin navigation-server-side include mainlinks.txt , ssi link list for www-personal.umich.edu/ ~ mrwizard note-all links are root-relative , therefore they take the syntax / ~ mrwizard/ etc . food and wine recipes cookbooks food in movies and fiction pentamere winery , tecumseh mi raftshol vineyards , sutton 's bay mi l. mawby , sutton 's bay mi family christmas eve a genealogy richard d. austin , jeweler , 1936-1990 richard d. austin : manuscripts and clippings tex austin nancy ann ( merx ) austin wedding , 1982 helen austin dale austin lego projects bauss family archive austin/bauss family photos menominee , michigan other family a cat named dumpster a cat named henrietta a cat named blert cats : predators by nature places i 've lived cat hierarchy theater the sanity of actors the costumer 's manifesto graphics freeware printer 's marks graphics projects graphics how-to figure drawings photoshop experiments resume resume earth and environmental sciences ecology and evolutionary biology major projects graphics projects trips backpacking sailing other places places cottage , coshocton , ohio ramsdell natural park , lenawee county , michigan cotswold cottage and forge , greenfield village , michigan tahquamenon falls , michigan center for american archaeology , kampsville , illinois cemetery , copper harbor , michigan rocky river reservation , cleveland , ohio glen arbor , michigan otter creek sleeping bear national lakeshore port oneida-sleeping bear national lakeshore brisling pottery-suttons bay , michigan mill creek state park , michigan fayette historic town site , michigan two hearted river , michigan erie marsh preserve san francisco tecumseh , michigan vulture roost otter slide brookside cemetery globe mill pond indian crossing trails park mill ponds of tecumseh development dept . pentamere winery links photo manufacturers/retailers alternative photo processes other photographers html and the web boats and sailing woodworking archival storage and bookbinding inspired lunacy business on the web politics , skeptics and atheism humor metal working reading list blogs expelled hank fox decrepit old fool waiterrant lawyers , guns and money the bad astronomer james howard kunstler : the geography of nowhere stupid evil bastard the macgyver files punching bag bracket-low ceiling ballet barre bronze belaying pins lathe relocation chuck spacer plates tap guides round flat thing mandrel cat door ramp bike rack for a small pickup truck nikon coolscan 4000 modification stethoscope repair parrel bead turning thimble die mainlinks.txt , ssi link list for www-personal.umich.edu/ ~ mrwizard note-all links are root-relative , therefore they take the syntax / ~ mrwizard/ etc . essays and rants exploding spaghetti squash mugged by turkeys vivian williams stampede kidney stones crisis response standards deathcults god or santa ? walnut shell boats mrs. barry flint and steel rope the radiator won capsizing a canoe freeze frame/rapids view hardware packrats sticks and stones mcmansions not an online journal lcd color shifts powerpoint and information the web is not tv why the words matter 20 bucks a month and an attitude desktop publishing is neither a software list is not a job description web design 1 web design 2 shovel-ware navigation and gps the tyranny of the spreadsheet websex how to become a webmaster copyright and the web pdas : the ultimate laptop why a lab notebook ? thoughts on backpacking relief operations dr769-08 iowa tornado and floods : june 17 - july 5 , 2008 confessions of a red cross emergency volunteer dr865-06 katrina diaries : september 4 - 26 , 2005 dr244-06 pennsylvania floods : june 30 - july 12 , 2006 dr659-08 hurricane dean : august 18 - 22 , 2007 my life as a red cross volunteer wood and metalwork shop notes some examples photographic projects loom , natchez mississippi machinist 's jacks boats and boat building building a dinghy building pangur ban-a 28 ' sharpie construction details boat pictures photography nudes other photographs photo notes studios : past and present things to make protecting family photos james mcallaster house about the house outside views landscaping portico plan and elevations ( pdf ) trim details ( pdf ) foyer dining room living room kitchen master bedroom sitting room the library ( the treehouse ) upstairs bedroom ( the lumberyard ) studio basement workroom-machine shop wine cellar coal bin mudroom renovations , 1999-2008 historical musings clan mcalister of america references and articles the object in question cast iron frying pan hudson bay hatchet lath house cannon model ship model gi joe papyrus paintings manual of physical training , united states army , 1914 home made fishing game ravensburger 's rivers , roads & rails rules of land warfare field entrenchments , american edition camping utensil set canvas camp basin blacksmith-made hammer treadle lathe , mill creek state park , michigan coleman two burner camp stove scouting patches " chin chin kobakama " cabela 's xtreme weather tent the storm , copper harbor mi schooner alvin clark jacquard loom svea 123 backpacking stove bud vase drafting tools austin family bible flint and steel rope
