# socialbox fine art landscape photography # header fine art landscape photography by dave allen western north carolina photographer dave allen captures fine art landscape photography that showcases the beauty of the southern appalachian mountains , including the blue ridge mountains of western north carolina and the great smoky mountains national park in eastern tennessee. the captivating mountains scenery of the blue ridge mountains and often surreal beauty of the great smoky mountains national park are the featured subjects in many of his archival quality photography prints and fine art canvas prints . dave allen is an internationally recognized fine art landscape photographer who is based in hendersonville , nc. his work has been featured around the world in fine art galleries , magazines such as outdoor photographer and national geographic , books , calendars , and more. much of dave allen 's landscape photography depicts stunningly beautiful nature scenes of the blue ridge mountains of western nc , the great smoky mountains national park in eastern tennessee , and the coastal carolinas including the outer banks and charleston sc . his acclaimed photography portfolio of fine art prints features a varied range of subjects including landscapes of the blue ridge mountains and great smoky mountains national park , silky mountain waterfalls , vivid floral and nature photography , wildlife , and other nature and outdoor related themes . all of dave 's photographic images are shot exclusively with nikon camera bodies , nikkor lenses , and filters by nikon , b + w , and hoya. tripods and camera support products used are made by really right stuff , gitzo , and kirk industries. for a more accurate listing of the photography gear dave uses , click here . digital photography workshops - the art of photography epic locations , expert guidance , awesome images ! join dave allen for an outdoor landscape photography adventure as you visit and shoot incredible locations throughout the carolinas and southern appalachians such as the blue ridge parkway in western north carolina , the great smoky mountains national park , and romantic charleston sc. dave will put you in epic photo locations at the best time of day and offer the expert advice you need to help you get your best landscape shots ever ! book your photo workshop adventure ! purchasing photography prints and fine art canvas prints you can purchase any of the images printed on your choice of archival quality photo paper or fine art canvas of various sizes , in both signed and unsigned versions. our prints are printed only with the highest quality ultrachrome k3 pigment inks on premium photo papers and fine art canvas media. these inks and papers are rated to last over 200 years , ensuring that your prints will look great for generations . you can purchase signed prints online directly through our website by clicking on the appropriate " add to cart " button . prints are also available at various fine art galleries and framing shops , including retail stores in hendersonville , asheville , brevard , black mountain , and other western north carolina areas. feel free to contact us for the most current list of galleries that have dave allen 's landscape photography prints in stock . recent images photo galleries landscapes wildlife & nature commercial & stock information home page about the artist photography workshops art show schedule recent news local art galleries dave 's photo gear gear for sale photography tips ordering information prints on sale ! new 2014 calendars ! blue ridge landscapes order yours today ! contact contact us by e-mail phone : ( 828 ) 777-0782 + 1 on google ! # leftbar # fauxcolumns all images are © 2013 dave allen photography , all right reserved website © 2013 dave allen # wrapper
