< ! [ endif ] digital photography by ian aiken search primary menu skip to content home astrophotography digital downloads deep sky astrophotography high resolution lunar imaging planetary imaging astro related photos daytime photography about me contact me shopping cart digital downloads search for : # masthead cycling .entry-meta virgin cyclone ride b – 63 hilly miles .entry-header # post- # # cycling .entry-meta sas charity ride completed – 71 miles ! .entry-header # post- # # cycling , photography trips .entry-meta sunderland astronomical society charity ride .entry-header # post- # # cycling .entry-meta 70 mile – should i be concerned ? .entry-header # post- # # cycling .entry-meta my first cycle event ! .entry-header # post- # # astro imaging .entry-meta moon mosaic 11th april 2014 .entry-header # post- # # .featured-content-inner # featured-content .featured-content cycling specialized awol may 20 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic my cycling bike a specialized awol. just saying … specialized awol sporting front panniers start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content # post- # # image processing lessons from the masters april 22 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic it ’ s been a long time since i wrote a mini book review but after having this book recommended by a friend astrophotographer i had to write something about it. i ’ ve already been praising it and recommending it to fellow images in the astro society . lessons from the masters is one of the few books i can use as a guide to processing astronomical images. yes there is plenty of information and tutorials online , several i have used , but the concepts presented in this book clearly explain and demonstrate how to put them to practise , and that makes a big difference . finer control one of the concepts i ’ ve never really seen is using pixelmath ( not as scary as it may seem after practising it using guidance from this book ) in pixinsight to split an image into large and small scale structures allowing different processing to be performed on each. i actually put this into practise with my m45 image which is why i have managed to get some of the red dusty stuff to show up and not completely blow out my stars ( which i didn ’ t get from shorter subs or anything , just controlled processing ) . images that pop another useful tutorial was how to make an image pop. this was demonstrated on thors helmet in the book and something i applied selectively to the flame and horsehead nebula to make the flame and horsehead stand out more. it ’ s basically using high pass filter in photoshop but seeing it presented and coming together in the book was very useful. there were other photoshop tutorials , more so than the pixinsight ones , and some useful concepts on presenting your image ( what a difference orientation and cropping can make ) . come on share your secrets ! there is a bit on planetary imaging but i ’ ve not found this particularly useful yet compared to the rest of the book , although it did tempt my into using winjupos and the section explaining what filters are best for what planets was good. i was expecting more ! i think there could have been more detail with regards image processing techniques , since after all that ’ s what the book is about. in my opinion this section covered everything for planetary imaging which left less room to write in more depth about the image processing and demonstration by example , in fact i don ’ t recall seeing any step by step guide in this section. still it was a good read and some useful pointers . use the link below to take you to amazon to view the book . flame and horsehead nebula processed with concepts from book ( published in astronomy now magazine may 2014 ) ngc7635 hargb m45 processed with concepts from book m45 lrgb start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content books processing # post- # # astro imaging .entry-meta mars has clouds image april 20 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic it ’ s amazing what you learn when imaging. mars has clouds and a north polar ice cap. yep , the north polar ice cap is dry ice , solid frozen carbon dioxide. clouds are basically the dust kicked up into the atmosphere . pretty pleased with this capture albeit the disc is not a perfect circle ( a problem of alignment in as ! 2 by using non optimum settings i think ) . captured : 14th april 2014 scope : celestron c8 edge hd @ ~ f20 ( x2 televue power mate ) camera : zwo asi120mm filters : astronomik 742nm ir-pass and zwo rgb mount : neq6 at elderberry observatory software : firecapture , as ! 2 , pixinsight , registax 6 , photoshop cs6 mars taken between 23 : 22 and 23 : 30 on the 14th april 2014 start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content celestron c8 mars planetary imaging zwo asi120mm # post- # # astro imaging .entry-meta first bash at saturn image april 20 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic this is my first go at imaging saturn. saturn was 837 million miles away at the time so understandably doing this from a ground based telescope is reasonably difficult . i had limited the exposures to 2 mins per channel. given how dim saturn is this meant a longer exposure to what i am used to compared to jupiter / mars and the number of frames was pretty low. saturn was also just clearing a neighbours house and was pretty low down in the sky at the time . nevertheless i am pleased with the image . captured : 23 : 55 on 14th april 2014 scope : celestron c8 edge hd camera : zwo asi120mm filters : astronomik 742nm ir-pass and zwo lrgb mount : neq6 at elderberry observatory software : firecapture , as ! 2 , pixinsight , registax 6 , photoshop cs6 saturn – 14th april 2014 start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content celestron c8 planetary imaging saturn zwo as120mm # post- # # astro imaging the sea of nectar – mare nectaris april 20 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic the sea of nectar ( mare nectaris ) is a small lunar sea. the mare material is approximately 1000m deep. the crater theophilus on the northeastern side of the mare is a prominent impact crater that partially intrudes into the crater cyrillus . capture date : 6th april 2014 . scope : celestron c8 edge hd camera : zwo asi120mm filters : astronomik 742nm ir-pass mount : neq6 in elderberry observatory software : firecapture , as ! 2 , pixinsight , registax 6 , photoshop cs6 the sea of nectar start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content imaging lunar mare nectaris sea of nectar # post- # # astro imaging aurora from roker pier , sunderland april 20 , 2014 ian aiken leave a comment .entry-meta .entry-header start shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsettop automatic 27th feb 2014 was a very exciting day. i ’ ve seen the aurora borealis once before from marsden and it was pretty amazing. on this day however , i was speechless . sitting quite happily in the house browsing the internet and wasting time on facebook as usual i happened to stumble upon a post by a newcastle astro society member who posted a quick photo of the back of their dslr camera showing the aurora. crikey it was strong ! i proceeded to get ready and shot off down the beach where i knew i could get away from the light pollution of the city . half way along roker pier i set up. the aurora was really strong and you could see the reds with your eye. the green bands were lighting up the sky. i ’ ve never seen the aurora so strong before and i certainly didn ’ t realise you could see it so bright and intense with just the eyes . snapping away with the 40d i managed to capture it quite easily. unfortunately my focus is a little off due to the camera missing a filter ( due to being a cheap skate and not fitting a replacement filter when my camera was modified for astro use ) . in hindsight i may have been better off using my point and shoot on a tripod . anyway – here is the shot i hope you enjoy it. till the next time . aurora borealis from roker pier in sunderland , uk start shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic end shareaholic likebuttonsetbottom automatic start shareaholic recommendations automatic end shareaholic recommendations automatic .entry-content astro aurora borealis roker pier # post- # # posts navigation 1 2 … 6 next → .pagination .navigation # content # primary search search for : latest tweets win an new # roadbike with @ runtastic - # giveaway # sweepstakes # gewinnspiel # win # runtastic # bike woobox.com/mkpdo3/8zcxk0 july 6 , 2014 09 : 31 rt @ roy_astro : its the regular thursday open evening for @ sunastrosoc tonight at 7pm. anyone can visit for # stargazing or help with telescopes. please rt. june 26 , 2014 13 : 16 moon mosaic from 11th april 2014 ow.ly/y9elr # astronomy # astrophotography # stargazing june 17 , 2014 22 : 39 it 's the season for observatory maintenance. strip down , rebuild , strip down , rebuild. some subtle upgrades too. june 17 , 2014 22 : 35 rt @ sunastrosoc : we 've only gone and bloody done it ! ! week done everyone involved. pic.twitter.com/jjvrf2tqzs june 16 , 2014 11 : 01 random gallery tag cloud andromeda galaxy astro astrophotography atik 314l + aurora borealis bamburgh c8 castle celestron celestron c8 cloud cycling first light france galaxy ha ic 1396 ic1396 imaging jupiter lighthouse lunar m31 m81 m82 mare nectaris mars meteor showers milky way moon nebula night planetary imaging processing roker pier saturn sea of nectar solar eclipse specialized awol stacking time lapse website zwo as120mm zwo asi120mm recommendations anyone serious about processing images either in adobe photoshop or pixinsight needs this book. just the section on splitting an image into small and large scale structures alone made it worth it. highly recommended ! # content-sidebar # main-content home astrophotography digital downloads deep sky astrophotography high resolution lunar imaging planetary imaging astro related photos daytime photography about me contact me shopping cart digital downloads follow me categories astro imaging ( 21 ) cycling ( 6 ) image processing ( 6 ) interesting musings ( 6 ) photography trips ( 5 ) upcoming events ( 1 ) archives june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 december 2013 april 2013 november 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 january 2012 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 january 2011 december 2010 # primary-sidebar # secondary # main recommended hosting calendar august 2014 s m t w t f s « jun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 friends and family andy arnell david aiken kate aiken sunderland astronomical society webpages of stephen carr photography links best photographer web hosting digital photography books kielder observatory sunderland astronomical society swash astro # footer-sidebar # supplementary proudly powered by wordpress .site-info # colophon # page ngg_resource_manager_marker
