instancebegin template = " /templates/altair32.dwt " codeoutsidehtmlislocked = " false " www.altair32.com real programmers do n't need keyboards ! instancebegineditable name = " editregion1 " welcome to the home of altair32 ~ emulator of altair 8800 computer in 1999 , i ( rich cini ) downloaded a copy of a mits altair emulator program written for the windows platform by claus giloi. claus , a programmer working for microsoft , wrote a 16-bit windows-based " emulator " for the altair and imsai 8080-based computers as a desktop toy more than a usable emulation. by 2000 , claus ' web site had disappeared ( although you still can find copies of the original executables on the web , including on this site . for the longest time , i was only able to find the binary distribution , but no source code. well , in june 2000 i came across a copy of the emulator source code. since then , i 've been updating the code , written between 1991 and 1997 , to fix various bugs ( mostly in the processor core ) add features that were left out of the original design. when i originally spoke to claus , he did admit that the original " emulator " was created more for blinkenlights than for use as a true machine emulator . before this project , i had no practical experience developing for the windows platform , and developing an emulator is certainly not a beginner 's project. working with the emulator gave me the opportunity to learn windows programming in addition to the c language. to top it all off , i was working with code written by someone who programs for a living . i had modest expectations for the project , now renamed the altair32 emulator project. i had no expectation of ever owning a real altair , but i wanted to have the ability to play with some old software like adventure and startrek. even if it did n't work , i expected a great learning experience . like many projects , it began to grow as soon as it started. it 's like having " replace faucet " on one 's to-do list and ending up with a new bathroom. you get the idea . there are also several important contributors to this project over the years , adding important capabilities like telnet , vt100 emulation , a z80 core , a working cromemco dazzler implementation , among others , from anthony wood , rodger smedley and fred scipione. the source files call out these and other individual contributors , and for their help , i 'm very grateful . please follow the links at the left and enjoy the site . instanceendeditable copyright ( c ) 1998-2009 richard a. cini , jr. all rights reserved. all copyrights of any third parties referred to herein are hereby acknowledged. there is no warranty , either express or implied , relating to any of the content contained herein. the site maintainer shall in no event be liable to anyone for damages , including any loss of profits , lost savings , or other incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use or misuse of the information contained on this web site. you may use the information contained herein for non-commercial purposes only and at your own risk. batteries not included. contents may settle during shipping. updated webbot bot = " timestamp " s-type = " edited " s-format = " % d- % b- % y % h : % m % z " startspan 27-nov-2009 19 : 45 -0500 webbot bot = " timestamp " i-checksum = " 35537 " endspan website design by www.dressageart.com instanceend
