the site for views on emulators - views - reviews interviews ev board ev chat the views top lists - profiles - emulators roms lite roms - other - news links privacy news w/o icons poll : people in the ev chat : 1 sunday , july 13 , 2003 oklahoma gaming exhibit ( 51 messages ) greetings visitors ! since there are still a bit of visits everyday , i thought i 'd post here to help my good friend jesse hardesty ( a.k.a. - ^ cro § bow ^ - ) with a classic gaming exhibit he is organizing. the name of the show is okge , short for oklahoma gaming exhibition. the show will take place on september 20,2003. already [ ...more ] sunday , february 23 , 2003 change of plans... ( 110 messages ) well , i guess a lot of people are wondering what 's been going on , since there has not been any update to the site in almost two weeks. it appears that once again i 've been flodded with other responsibilities that sadly take precedence over my hobbies. first and foremost , i will become a father in just a few weeks , and [ ...more ] monday , february 10 , 2003 visual boy release and updates ! ( 57 messages ) following a visual boy release i seem to have missed over the weekend , there have been two sets of updates which mark the release of the usual translations into a myriad of different languages. version 1.4 was released on saturday which includes a bunch of improvements and additions , so it 's really a must have. visit the website linked above for the many available downloads , and enjoy. [ comments ] virtual jaguar wip ( 20 messages ) want to take a look at the latest and greatest from virtual jaguar ? then click on that link and enjoy glancing over screenshots of " troy aikman nfl football " and " fight for life " , both in action and in playable form. for those that are n't aware , " fight for life " is a 3d polygon based fighter , which i guess was pushing the technology envelope a bit for the time period. check out the screenshots , you 'll be pleased. [ comments ] mame32 updated ! ( 509 messages ) how 's this for a quick turnaround ? mame is updated to version 0.65 ( download is finally available from the emulator download page ) and just hours later mame32 is updated to this version as well. it includes a few changes of it 's own including reworked lightgun options , and the f5/refresh routines which now use more [ ...more ] mame 0.65 ! ( 57 messages ) a new version of mame has been released today ! as soon as a binary is made available , i will be posting it here. this release includes a good number of fixes of bugs listed by the mame testers group. it also includes fixes to the cps2 raster effects , major improvements to the jaleco mega system 32 games and support for [ ...more ] saturday , february 08 , 2003 system24 emu ? ( 19 messages ) charles macdonald has made an update on his site , which includes the first release of his wip system24 emulator. however , you should know that the emulator still does n't play any games yet , and also needs a high speed computer to perform well. if you would like to start pre-drooling for the games that it should play [ ...more ] thursday , february 06 , 2003 hot potato again ! ( 10 messages ) the potato emulation website is running hot again with a couple of updates on both potatopce and virtual jaguar. potatopce is showing off a few cool looking cd-rom based games. if " dracula x " alone does n't excite you , i do n't know what will. check out the page for those shots. virtual jaguar is also doing the cd dance [ ...more ] more news from this day... more news from this day.. . © 2002 emuviews
