sol20.org navigation home news manuals articles emulator programs media roms keyboard guestbook links thanks solace sol a nachronistic c omputer e mulation i was lucky enough to find a ( nearly ) working sol computer for not much money. most people are n't so lucky. it is also possible to buy a sol computer on ebay , as they pop up from time to time , but that has its own problems , in particular being relatively expensive ( anywhere from $ 300 to $ 1200 , depending on condition and peripherals ) . one thing that has bothered me is that i 've invested way too much time in archiving sol information and maintaining these web pages yet only a handful of people can make use of the information . the answer was obvious – to write an emulator ( click the image below to watch it in action on youtube ) . if you are new to emulation , the idea is this. because today 's machines are so much faster than the machines of yesterday , it is possible to write a program that exactly interprets the machine code of the older machine , opcode by opcode , yet still be as fast ( or much faster ) than the old machine. there are plenty of problems of course. besides the cpu , anything that the cpu interacts with must be modeled too . in the case of the sol , this means the keyboard , the display , dip switches , parallel and serial i/o , and cassette interfaces. because the sol is an s-100 machine , it also means that any of the thousands of s-100 add-in cards could be modeled as well. it is n't always necessary to model everything exactly , but the more accurate the modeling job , the more likely it is a given piece of software will operate properly . so , with this emulator and an x86 windows machine , anybody can have the experience of running two decade old sol programs. a pentium-class machine ( probably 100 mhz and higher ) is required to get full speed emulation . this emulator runs under windows as a win32 application , not as a dos program , as many other emulators do . solace features an integrated debugger , which can be quite handy for new code development , patching old programs , or doing reverse engineering . in a case of wicked overkill , solace has support for virtual cassette storage . using the emulated cassettes is just about as clumsy and tedious as the real thing , except it is probably a lot more reliable than the real thing . once you get tired of fiddling with virtual cassette tapes , you can step up to a virtual northstar ds/dd floppy disk system . emulation is n't complete. currently the serial port and parallel port are not at all supported. one long-term goal is to emulate the helios disk subsystem and get pt-dos running again . let me know if you have any problems with solace , have any suggestions , enjoyed it , hated it , or are from the processor technology legal department . this release , version 3.2 , is a bug fix release over version 3.1 . read the release notes for the details . the .zip file below contains the emulator , the solos rom , and a few programs ( in .ent format ) to get you started. the .zip also has some release notes and my ongoing todo list , so you can see what direction i 'm headed with solace. you can go to the sol-20 program binaries and source page and download other programs to run . download the emulator here ( version 3.2 , 1.2 mb ; source code included ) release notes do n't worry , there is no install program , no registry changes , or other hassles. just unzip into a directory and away you go . contact : jim @ thebattles.net ( jim battle ) last update : september 26 , 2005
